WELCOME TO THE SEPTEMBER FIVE
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
IF YOU ARE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
, I PLEDGE
ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND TO
THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT
STANDS ONE NATION ALONG WITH
LIBERTY AND JUSTICE FOR ALL
WITH OUR CLERK PLEASE CALL THE
ROLE OF COUNSEL OVER DENHA HERE
COUNCILMAN HARRISON HERE,
COUNCILMAN HERE, COUNCILOR
WATSON APSA COUNCIL MEMBER, A
DENHA HERE COUNCILMAN HE HAD
ONE HERE MAYOR TAYLOR HERE
COUNCILOR IRE HERE COMES MY
ACTION HERE.
COUNCILOR BRIGGS HERE,
COUNCILOR CORNELL HERE WE HAVE
A QUORUM.
WE HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER SO UNEXPECTED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION
OF THE AGENDA OR FAVOR POSED.
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
NOWE WE DO HAVE TWO TWO
INTRODUCTIONS TODAY.
FIRST FROM OUR INDEPENDENT
COMMUNITY POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION CHAIR CARTER CHAIR
CARTER, YOU HAVE THE KONNA.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING, MAYOR.
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL MADAM CLERK
,I FIRST OF ALL I HOPE
EVERYBODY HAD A GOOD LABOR DAY.
I YOU PROBABLY KNOW PARK DID
NOT MEET IN AUGUST SO I HAVE
NOTHING TO REPORT ON ON THAT I
DO KNOW THAT IN YOUR ON YOUR
AGENDA TODAY YOU HAVE APPROVAL
.
SECOND READING FOR THREE NEW
COMMISSIONERS FOR PARK AND WE
BELIEVE THEY WILL MAKE
EXCELLENT COMMISSIONERS.
WE'VE GONE OUT AND GRABBED
PEOPLE AND SAID THE PEOPLE THAT
WE THOUGHT WOULD BE HELPFUL WE
HAVE ANOTHER ONE COMING
PROBABLY AT THE NEXT MEETING.
SO HOPEFULLY WE WILL BE AT A
FULL COMPLEMENT VERY SOON.
WE ARE STILL LOOKING FOR A
YOUTH MEMBER SO IF THERE'S ANY
ONE STUDENT WE'RE LOOKING FOR A
STUDENT YOU THEM QUMU WASHTENAW
COMMUNITY COLLEGE TO FILL THAT
SPOT.
WE HAVE A LOT OF WORK TO BEGIN
DOING THIS FOR YOU.
I HAVE SPOKEN BEFORE AND I'M
GOING TO SPEAK AGAIN ABOUT OUR
PUBLIC FORUM THAT IS COMING UP
IS GOING TO BE WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER TWENTY SEVENTH.
I'VE HEARD FROM A COUPLE OF YOU
AND AND I HOPE THAT THAT YOU
WILL ACCEPT OUR INVITATION TO
ATTEND YOU KNOW, OUR ORDINANCE
CHARGES THAT WE ARE TO CREATE
AN ENVIRONMENT WHICH ALLOWS FOR
BETTER COMMUNICATION,
UNDERSTANDING AND RELATIONS
BETWEEN THE DEPARTMENT AND THE
COMMUNITY.
SO WE'RE HOPING THAT WE HAVE
POLICE OFFICERS COME OUT.
WE HAVE ASKED DR KARPIAK TO
COME AND GIVE A MORE EXTENDED
PRESENTATION THAN HE DID HERE
AND THERE WILL BE A TIME FOR
QUESTIONS IF ANYONE DOES HAVE
QUESTIONS ABOUT THAT TRAFFIC
STUDY.
WE HAVE ASKED COUNCILWOMAN
HARRISON TO COME AND GIVE A FEW
WORDS ABOUT THE DRIVING
ORDINANCE DRIVING DISPARITY,
ORDINANCE EQUALITY
ORDINANCE
AND AGAIN THERE'LL BE TIME FOR
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS AND
DISCUSSION AND WE'RE GOING TO
ASK THE COMMUTE.
WE MAY GET FIVE COMMUNITY
MEMBERS.
WE MAY GET FIFTY FIVE.
WE DON'T KNOW WE HAVEN'T TRIED
THIS BEFORE BUT IT IS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO FOLKS FOR FOLKS
TO COME OUT TALK WITH US, NOT
JUST ASK QUESTIONS BUT TELL US
WHAT THEY WANT AS I'VE SAID
BEFORE, WE ARE YOUR ONLY
COMMISSION WITH THE WORD
COMMUNITY IN OUR TITLE AND SO
WE DO INTEND TO TRY AND
INVOLVED A COMMUNITY THAT IS
BASICALLY ALL THAT I HAVE.
I HOPE TO SEE SOME OF YOU ON
THE TWENTY SEVENTH WE'RE GOING
TO BE AT THE POLICE
NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER AND WE ARE
GRATEFUL TO COMMISSIONER
BILLUPS FOR ALLOWING US TO MEET
AT THAT VENUE.
WE THINK IT'S GOING TO BE IT'S
GOING TO BE A GOOD PROGRAM.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH UNLESS
THERE ARE ANY QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
I DO NOW HAVE THE PLEASURE
OF ENGAGING A PROCLAMATION
OF DISABILITY VOTING RIGHTS
WEEK IN ANN ARBOR DID DIDN'T
WANT TO JOIN ME UP FROM
I GOT
TO SEE YOU AS ALWAYS.
YEAH.
GOOD TO BE SEEN.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WE ARE OF COURSE IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
WE FOCUS ON A WIDE VARIETY
OF THINGS.
WE NATURALLY PROVIDE BASIC
SERVICES CONSTANTLY
CONSISTENTLY LOOK FORWARD TO
IMPROVING THEM ALWAYS AND
NOTHING IS AS MORE FUNDAMENTAL
TO THE PROVISION OF BASIC
SERVICES IN OUR CONTEXT
OF VOTING RIGHTS.
AND FURTHER WE ARE A WELCOMING
COMMUNITY SEEKING TO INCLUDE
ALL MEMBERS OF OUR COMMUNITY IN
IN ALL ASPECTS OF CIVIC LIFE.
THEREFORE IT IS MY GREAT
PLEASURE WITH THE INITIATIVE
COUNCILMAN RAGAZZI EDWYN AND
THE CHAIR OF KODAI THE
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY ISSUES
TO TO EFFECT THIS PROCLAMATION
THAT IS TO SAY DISABILITY
VOTING RIGHTS WEEK.
SO I'LL GIVE IT A BRIEF READING
THEN TURN TURN THE MIKE OVER TO
YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU SO WHEREAS THE VOTING
RIGHTS ACT OF NINETEEN SIXTY
FIVE THE AMERICAN DISABILITIES
ACT OF NINETEEN NINETY AND THE
HELP AMERICA VOTE ACT OF 2002
SET ACCESSIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
FOR FEDERAL POLLING LOCATIONS
AND WHEREAS WIDELY RECOGNIZED
STANDARDS AND GOOD PRACTICES
MAINTAIN THAT THE ELECTION
CYCLE SHOULD REMOVE BARRIERS
AND PROMOTE BROAD PARTICIPATION
OF ELIGIBLE VOTERS AND WHEREAS
AS MANY AS ONE IN FOUR ADULTS
IN THE UNITED STATES HAVE SOME
TYPE OF DISABILITY WITH OVER
TWO POINT THREE MILLION
DISABLED PERSONS LIVING IN THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN AND WHEREAS
ANN ARBOR HAS WORKED TO IMPROVE
ACCESS TO VOTING AND IT IS WHY
THE EXERCISE PART OF THE WIDELY
RECOGNIZED THAT ACCESSIBLE
DESPITE THOSE EFFORTS STILL DO
EXIST WHEREAS ANN ARBOR HAS
COMMITTED RESOURCES TO IMPROVE
PHYSICAL ACCESS TO A PUBLIC AND
PRIVATE POLLING PLACES
INCLUDING PARKING LOT STRIPING
ELECTRIC DOOR OPENERS AND NEW
RAMPS WHEREAS THE CITY THEN
ABOVE RECOGNIZES THAT PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES ARE AN
IMPORTANT AND CRUCIAL PART
OF OUR COMMUNITY WHO PROVIDE
UNIQUE PERSPECTIVES, LIVED
EXPERIENCES AND KNOWLEDGE TO
THEIR VARIED INTERSECTIONAL
IDENTITIES AND THAT THEIR
VOICES MAKE OUR COMMUNITY
STRONGER.
AND WHEREAS THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR CALLS ATTENTION THAT THE
BARRIERS PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES FACE WHEN CASTING
THEIR VOTE AND FURTHER
ENCOURAGES ELECTION
ADMINISTRATION TO ENSURE THAT
ALL DISABLED VOTERS HAVE FULL
AND EQUITABLE ACCESS TO THE
POLLS WITHIN THEIR
JURISDICTION.
NOW THEREFORE I CHRISTOPHER
TAYLOR MARY ANN ARBOR DO HEREBY
PROCLAIM THE WEEK OF SEPTEMBER
11 THROUGH SEPTEMBER 15 AS
DISABILITY VOTING RIGHTS WEEK
IN THE CITY OF ANN.
WOW.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH TO THE
MAYOR AND TO THE CITY FOR THIS
GRACIOUS GRACIOUS AUDIENCE.
IT IS A PLEASURE AND AN HONOR
TO BE HERE WITH YOU THIS
EVENING AND YOU KNOW AS CHAIR
OF THE ANNENBERG COMMISSION
DISABILITY ISSUES, I WANT TO
THANK ALL OF MY FELLOW
COMMISSIONERS FOR THEIR SUPPORT
FOR THEIR DEDICATION TO MAKING
THIS CITY INCLUSIVE AND
EQUITABLE FOR ALL.
BRIEFLY AS A CHAIRMAN OF THE
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY
ISSUES, I STAND BEFORE YOU
TODAY TO ALSO EXPRESS MY
UNWAVERING SUPPORT OF THE
RESOLUTION TO ELIMINATE SUB
MINIMUM WAGE HERE IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
AND IT IS TIME FOR US TO TAKE A
STAND FOR FAIRNESS AND EQUALITY
AND THE RIGHTS OF ALL
INDIVIDUALS INCLUDING THOSE
WITH DISABILITIES.
YOU SEE SUB MINIMUM WAGE IS
OFTEN REFERRED TO AS THE
PRACTICE OF PAYING FOR
INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES
LESS THAN THE FEDERAL MINIMUM
WAGE AND THAT IS NOT
DISCRIMINATORY BUT PERPETUATES
A SYSTEM OF INEQUALITY AND IT
UNDERMINES THE DIGNITY AND
WORTH OF THOSE INDIVIDUALS
WORKING HARD WITH THE
DISABILITY AND DENYING THEM THE
OPPORTUNITY TO FULLY
PARTICIPATE IN THE WORKFORCE
AND CONTRIBUTE TO THEIR
COMMUNITIES.
SO I ENCOURAGE YOU THIS EVENING
BY ABOLISHING THE SUB MINIMUM
WAGE YOU STAND AS A POWERFUL
MESSAGE TO ALL INDIVIDUALS
REGARDLESS OF THEIR ABILITIES
AND THEIR EQUAL TREATMENT AND
RESPECT TO HAVE A FAIR AND
EQUITABLE WAGE HERE IN THE
CITY.
SO AS YOU LOOK THIS TODAY, I
ENCOURAGE YOU AS A BUSINESS
OWNER, AS SOMEONE IN THIS
COMMUNITY WHO HAS GROWN UP
HERE, PLEASE CONSIDER TO
ABOLISH SUB MINIMUM WAGE HERE
IN THE CITY.
THANK YOU.
TO SEE THE
WE NOW COME TO
PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVED TIME
PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME IS
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND COMMUNITY THAT
MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST
TO SPEAK IN PUBLIC AND RESERVE
TIME.
ONE NEEDS HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS.
ALL INSTANCES WHETHER HERE OR
ONLINE WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES
IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
OUR CLERK OR THE TIME COP WILL
NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME IS
EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND SEE THE FLOOR ARE
OH MY EARNEST APOLOGIES.
I I DIDN'T REALIZE THAT WE I
DIDN'T RECOLLECT PART OF ME
THAT WE HAD ADDITIONAL MEMBERS
FROM IN CONNECTION WITH THE
DISABILITY VOTING RIGHTS WEEK
PROCLAMATION ONLINE AND SO NOW
WE HAVE DESSA HELLO.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
IT'S SUCH A PLEASURE TO BE
HERE.
MY NAME IS GASTROPODS.
NO I AM BOTH A WHEELCHAIR USER
AND THE FOUNDING DIRECTOR OF AN
ORGANIZATION CALLED DETROIT
DISABILITY POWER AND I WANT TO
THANK THE CALLER AND THE CITY
COUNCIL FOR INVITING ME TODAY.
IT IS A GREAT HONOR TO BE IN
THE COMPANY OF FOLKS LIKE ZACH
DAMON AND COUNCIL WOMAN.
I SHOULD END TO SUPPORT THE
DISABILITY VOTING RIGHTS WEEK
PROCLAMATION.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT IS
IMPORTANT FOR RAISING AWARENESS
AND I WANT TO GIVE YOU A REAL
BRIEF STORY ABOUT WHY THAT IS.
I MENTIONED I'M A WHEELCHAIR
USER AND I STARTED A DISABILITY
JUSTICE ORGANIZATION AND A LOT
OF THAT HAS TO DO WITH MY
EXPERIENCE AS A REGULAR EXCITED
ENTHUSIAST VOTER MANY TIMES
WHEN I HAVE GONE TO VOTE IN MY
WHEELCHAIR I HAVE STRUGGLED TO
DO SO.
I ACTUALLY LIVE IN DETROIT AND
IN ANN ARBOR.
BUT WHAT I HAVE LEARNED OVER
THE YEARS IS THAT THE
CHALLENGES AROUND ACCESSIBILITY
ARE NOT IN A SINGULAR PLACE BUT
VERY COMMON THROUGHOUT THE
COUNTRY.
SO BACK IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN I
WENT TO VOTE IN MY WHEELCHAIR.
I WAS VERY PLEASED TO GET INTO
THE BUILDING TO GET MY BALLOT
AND THEN I TURNED AROUND TO
FIGURE OUT WHERE I WOULD GO TO
FILL IT OUT AND THERE WAS
ABSOLUTELY NOWHERE THAT I COULD
REACH FROM MY WHEELCHAIR.
ALL OF THE BOOTHS WERE STANDING
RIGHT AND THERE WAS NOWHERE FOR
ME TO VOTE AND WHEN I TURNED
AROUND TO ASK THE WOMAN WHO HAD
SIGNED ME AND WHERE I SHOULD
GO, SHE DIDN'T HAVE AN ANSWER
AND WHILE SHE WAS VERY KIND SHE
CLEARLY NO ONE HAD CLEARLY
THOUGHT ABOUT OH WHAT DO WE A
WHEELCHAIR USING THE COMES INTO
THE CROWD ONLY ACCOMMODATES
SOMEONE WHO MOVES THROUGH THIS
WORLD DIFFERENTLY AND SO AFTER
A FEW MINUTES OF CONSULTING
EACH OTHER THEY CLEARED OFF THE
TABLE IN THE BACK AND I WAS
ABLE TO VOTE PRIVATELY AND
INDEPENDENTLY THAT NIGHT I
HAPPENED TO HAVE AN ADVISORY
MEETING OF MY ORGANIZATION AND
ALL OF WHOM WERE OTHER PEOPLE
WITH VARIOUS DISABILITIES AND
EACH AS I SHARE THE STORY
OF WHAT HAPPENED, EACH OF THEM
SHARED SIMILAR STORIES.
THESE ARE THE LIVES PEOPLE
PEOPLE WITH COGNITIVE
DISABILITY, OTHER PEOPLE WITH
MOBILITY DISABILITIES.
BUT EVERY SINGLE ONE OF US HAD
A STORY OF A CHILD VOTING FAST
WOMAN VERY IMPORTANT ELECTION
OF TWENTY TWENTY.
I SHOWED UP TO VOTE.
I WANTED TO USE THE ACCESSIBLE
VOTING MACHINE.
I APPARENTLY WAS THE FIRST
PERSON THAT DAY TO ASK TO DO IT
.
NO ONE THERE AT THE PRECINCT
KNEW HOW TO TURN IT ON OR WHAT
THE CALL WAS.
I WAITED ABOUT FORTY FIVE
MINUTES WHILE THEY PLAYED PHONE
WITH THE OTHERS IN THE
HEADQUARTERS OF THE CLERK'S
OFFICE AND AT THE END OF THE
DAY I WAS ABLE TO VOTE ON THE
VOTING MACHINE BUT THEY
COULDN'T TABULATE MY BECAUSE
THE PAPER WAS A DIFFERENT SIDE
THAN WHAT NORMALLY GOES IN THE
TABULATOR A PAPER BALLOT.
SO I ACTUALLY LEFT THAT
ELECTION NOT KNOWING MY VOTE
COUNTED AND AGAIN I JUST RAN
FORCE.
THERE ARE LOTS OF DIFFERENT
WAYS THAT PROBLEMS CAN COME UP
ON ELECTION DAY BUT NONE
OF THEM ARE UNPREVENTABLE.
BOTH STORIES I JUST TOLD YOU
COULD EASILY BE SOLVED WITH A
LITTLE MORE TRAINING AND
PREPARATION.
AND SO IN TWENTY TWENTY TWO MY
ORGANIZATION DETROIT DISABILITY
HAS WORKED AT THE CARTER CENTER
DOWN IN ATLANTA TO DO A MASSIVE
AUDIT OF THE METRO DETROIT
POLLING SITES TO DETERMINE
WHERE THE ACCESSIBILITY
PROBLEMS WERE.
AND WHILE WE DIDN'T COME TO ANN
ARBOR WE FOCUSED ON FIFTEEN
JURISDICTIONS
SOUTHEAST
MICHIGAN AND THE RESULTS WE
CAME BACK WERE VERY TROUBLING
ALTHOUGH NOT SURPRISING
OF THOSE TWO HUNDRED AND SIXTY
ONE POLLING SITES THAT WE
AUDITED ON ELECTION DAY
NOVEMBER TWENTY TWENTY TWO ONLY
16 PERCENT WERE FULLY
ACCESSIBLE.
AND SO WHEN WE LOOKED AT THIS
DATA WE KNOW THAT THAT MEANS
THAT VOTER TURNOUT OF DISABLED
RESIDENTS IS LOWER THAN IT
SHOULD BE.
WE KNOW THAT PEOPLE ARE ABLE TO
VOTE LIKE THEY SHOULD AND ARE
ENTITLED TO AND THAT WE HAVE
SOME WORK TO AND SO WE ARE
WORKING WITH VERY COOPERATIVE
PLANTS LIKE YOURS TO ENSURE
THAT WE'RE FIXING THE PROBLEMS,
ESPECIALLY THE LOW HANGING
FRUIT PROBLEMS.
THERE'S MANY OF THESE PROBLEMS
THAT DON'T COST MONEY TO FIX
BUT ALSO TACKLING THE HARDER
PROBLEMS LIKE THE
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT NEEDS TO BE
ALTERED TO MAKE SURE THAT
PEOPLE CAN GET IN BUILDING AND
VOTE.
SO THIS REPORT IS AVAILABLE.
IT'S ALSO WE HAVE LOTS
OF BRIEFINGS AND WORKSHOPS TO
LEARN HOW TO MAKE THESE POLLING
PLACES ACCESSIBLE.
THERE'S A LOT MORE YOU COULD
SAY ABOUT THAT.
BUT WHAT I'M REALLY HERE TO SAY
TODAY IT'S VERY EXCITING FOR
THIS PROCLAMATION DISABILITY
VOTING RIGHTS BECAUSE A GREAT
WAY TO RAISE AWARENESS ABOUT
THESE THINGS AND I APPRECIATE
THE TIME AND ATTENTION THAT
YOU'RE PUTTING TOWARDS IT.
THANK YOU MISS KOSMA OUR FIRST
PUBLIC SPEAKER IS MICHELLE
HUGHES
.
MICHELLE HUGHES IS ON ZOOM.
GO AHEAD.
I AM HERE TO TALK ABOUT THE
INCIDENT THE RESOLUTION DC TO
FOR
YOUR SAFETY IN TRAFICON AND
NEIGHBORHOOD STREETS AND I'M
HERE TO SAY THAT I DISAGREE
ABOUT IT.
IT SETS SAFETY AS THE DEFAULT
AND I THINK THAT IS WHAT WE
SHOULD COME TO EXPECT IS THAT
AS A COMMUNITY WHEN I THINK WE
KNOW I THINK WE SHOULD KNOW BY
NOW WE'VE HAD WE HAVE
INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO US
THAT OUR ROADS ARE NOT SAFE,
THAT THEY'RE DESIGNED FOR CARS
AND NOT HUMANS.
I BELIEVE THAT NEIGHBORHOOD
STREETS SHOULD BE A PLACE
THAT'S SAFE FOR KIDS TO PLAY
AND FOR PEOPLE TO BE PEOPLE FOR
PEOPLE TO GATHER AND CONGREGATE
.
AND I THINK THAT THE MORE WE
CAN DO TO CALM TRAFFIC, THE
MORE WE CAN MAKE THOSE THINGS
REAL.
AND I THINK THAT WE HAVE OTHER
OPPORTUNITIES AS WELL.
SO PASS THIS TONIGHT FOR SURE.
BUT I'D LIKE TO SEE SOMETHING
COMING FORWARD IN THE FUTURE
THAT CALMS TRAFFIC BY DEFAULT
ON MAJOR ROADS BY DOING BY
DOING ROAD.
THAT'S WHERE YOU KNOW, ANY TIME
WE REPAVE A ROAD WE REALLY A
MAJOR ROAD THAT WE KNOW FOR
SURE THAT THERE'S GOING TO BE A
ROAD DIET UNLESS THERE'S A VERY
GOOD REASON NOT TO DO A ROAD
DIET AND STAFF BETTER EXPLAIN
TO US WHY THEY DIDN'T DO A ROAD
DIET A PARTICULAR STREET BUT
I'M NOT SAYING TO SEE THE
TRAFFIC ON RESOLUTION BECAUSE
TRAFFIC SAFETY SHOULD BE
SOMETHING THAT WE CAN COUNT ON,
NOT SOMETHING THAT WE HAVE TO
BEG FOR.
SO PLEASE PASS DC TO YOU
TONIGHT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ELLIOTT
CARTER
ELLIOTT CARTER PHONE
NUMBER ENDING AND FORTY NINE GO
AHEAD AND ON MEET YOUR PHONE
PRESS STAR SIX GO AHEAD AND
HEAR ME NOW.
YES WE THANK YOU AGAIN OUR I
GRADUATED THAT YOU'VE NEVER
SEEN ANYONE TWENTY I WORK
DEFINITELY NETWORK REPORTING ON
THE RELEVANT OF AND IN MY LIFE
INNOVATION REPORT THE PASSING
OF RESOLUTION ONE ONE THREE
FOUR NINE SEVEN FOR THE
ADMINISTRATIVE ADVOCATE THE
MICHIGAN LEGISLATURE AND THE
NEW REPORTING SEASON TICKETS IN
THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
THE NETWORK ALLEGEDLY FORMED AT
THE END OF LIVING ALMOST 50
YEARS AGO MAKING A RECORD FOR
INDEPENDENT LIVING IN THE
COUNTRY CONTAINING THE PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES IN 1976 STARS
INSTITUTIONALIZATION IS NO
LONGER THE EVER PRESENT THREAT
TO THE ABILITY THAT FIRE AND
AMERICANS ARE MUCH MORE
ACCUSTOMED THE IDEA OF PEOPLE
TO FACILITATING FULL
INDEPENDENT FULFILLING
INCLUDING THINGS THAT WOULD NOT
BE FEW EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES
AND DISABILITIES HAVE INCREASED
EXPONENTIALLY WITH THE HELP
OF TECHNOLOGY AND THEY SET
POLICY FOR EIGHTY FIVE YEAR OLD
POLICY IS STILL ALLOWING PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES BACK TO FULL
INCLUSION IN THE WORKPLACE THAT
CAN PERTAIN TO THE FAIR LABOR
STANDARDS ACT OF NINETEEN
THIRTY EIGHT.
IT BECOME INCREASINGLY CLEAR
THAT THE HONORABLE MEMBERS
OF THE COUNCIL OF STATE MINIMUM
WAGE OF TEN AND 10 PERCENT
OF THE POWER IS NOT ENOUGH TO
GET BY THE TO GET INTO THAT IS
STILL LEGAL FOR SOME PEOPLE TO
BE PAID LESS THAN ONE OR AN
HOUR IN MICHIGAN OUR BUSINESS
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION OR
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION TO
PROVIDE A WAIVER WHICH ALLOWS
THEM TO USE A CONVOLUTED
FORMULA WITH VIRTUALLY NO
OVERSIGHT TO PAY FOR
DISABILITY.
THEY THEIR OBSERVED
PRODUCTIVITY ON THE JOB.
PEOPLE WITHOUT THE PENALTY DO
NOT HAVE TO HAVE THEIR
PRODUCTIVITY TO DETERMINE THEIR
WAGES.
SO WHY IS IT STILL THE CASE FOR
PEOPLE DISABILITY?
THE ARGUMENT FOR KEEPING THE
MINIMUM WAGE ARE OFTEN AT THE
OTHER END OF THE SHORTCOMINGS
OF OUR GOVERNMENT POLICY IS
GOING TO BE PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES AND POVERTY AND
IT'S TRUE THAT THESE POLICIES
OFTEN REQUIRE PEOPLE TO MONITOR
AND REPORT THIS MORNING PERHAPS
EVEN BY ORGANIZATIONS LIKE OUR
INFERTILITY NETWORK AND BETTER
SERVICES SUCH A COMMITTEE WHICH
ALLOWS A PERSON WITH A
DISABILITY TO SEE HOW MUCH THEY
CAN WORK AT A COMPETITIVE JOB
30 SECONDS AN HOUR BY ANOTHER
ADVOCATE FOR INTELLECTUAL
DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY
MICHIGAN OR CURRENTLY PUSHING
FOR A STATE LAW PLAN THAT
INVOLVES COLLECTING FROM THE
GOVERNMENT THE LOCAL RESOURCES.
THE ONLY EXHIBIT I HOPE THAT
MICHIGAN JOINING US TO ABOUT A
PROGRAM VANDERBEEK I'M GOING TO
GET AND SUPPORT THE CITY
COUNCIL MEMBER.
SHE DOESN'T HAVE TO TODAY AND
THANK YOU ON TIME FOR Q&A.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KIRK
WESTFALL, KIRK WESTFALL, PHONE
NUMBER NINE FIVE FIVE GO AHEAD
BREDENKAMP.
I'M CALLING IN SUPPORT
OF EIGHTY-THREE RESOLUTION TO
IMPROVE DATA AND PERFORMANCE
BENEFIT.
I WANT TO THANK THE AUTHORS
SPONSORS AND MAKE HONORABLE
MENTION TO JOHN MURPHY WHO IS
NEVER LET CREDIT FOR IT BUT HAS
BEEN YEARS OF CHAMPIONING THE
GOALS THAT ARE SPECIFIC
CONCEIVABLE, RELEVANT AND TIME
BOUND OTHERWISE KNOWN AS
MARCOULE.
I REPEAT THAT THIS RESOLUTION
HIGHLIGHTS THE IMPORTANCE
OF TRANSPARENCY AND PERFORMANCE
MANAGEMENT AND DIRECT
IMPLEMENTATION BEGIN AND FOR
PEOPLE FOLLOWING ALONG
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
ACCORDING TO THE SOCIETY FOR
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND
TO FIND THAT THE PROCESS
OF MAINTAINING OR IMPROVING
EMPLOYEE JOB PERFORMANCE
THROUGH THE USE OF PERFORMANCE
TOOLS, COACHING AND COUNSELING
WILL PROVIDE CONTINUOUS
FEEDBACK.
THE LAST TIME I ADDRESSED IN
PERSON WAS EXACTLY A YEAR AND A
HALF AGO ON THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR WAS FIRED.
THAT TIME I HEARD A FEW TO
START WORKING ON YOUR MOST
IMPORTANT JOB EVALUATING THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR I RECOMMEND
DOING SOMETHING ON A QUARTERLY
BASIS WITH PERHAPS A MORE
FORMAL EVALUATION BASIS TO MY
KNOWLEDGE INTO INTERVENING
TIME.
NOT ONE ADMINISTRATOR OR CITY
ATTORNEY VALUATION HAS BEEN
DONE AND THAT DOCUMENT
REVOLUTION COUNCIL AND STEP ON
A PATH TOWARD BUILDING
ACHIEVEMENT IN ORDER TO BE
EFFECTIVE THOUGH I BELIEVE THIS
RESOLUTION MUST BE EXPANDED.
I HAVE THREE SUGGESTIONS.
ONE IS TO AGREE TO HOLD THE
RESOLUTION, MAKE REFERENCE TO
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS LIKE
THE SUGGESTION OF WHAT THE KEYS
ARE OR HAVE HAD TO DETERMINE IT
SHOULD NOT BE LEFT UP TO STAFF
ON THE COUNCIL FINANCES THE
QUESTION THEN YOU SHOULD BEGIN
A PROCESS OF DETERMINING WHICH
ONE YOU REALLY CARE ABOUT, WHAT
IT LOOKS LIKE IN A TIME FRAME
THAT ACHIEVABLE.
FOR EXAMPLE, ARE THERE ANY
OUTCOMES THAT YOU CARE ABOUT SO
MUCH THAT YOU WOULD AS A CITY
ADMINISTRATOR FOR PERFORMANCE
REVIEW IF WE DIDN'T ACHIEVE IT
AND HELP EACH OF YOU CAN THINK
OF AT LEAST FAR AND THEN YOU
CAN CONSENSUS ON MANY OF THEM
THAT I WANT TO KNOW WHAT THOSE
ARE AND PEOPLE YOU DO TOO.
I HOPE THAT NEXT BUDGET WILL BE
CLEAR WHERE MONEY THAT SHOULD
BE ALLOCATED NO TO EVALUATIONS
NOW PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT IS
CRITICAL SOMETHING THAT
SHOULDN'T WAIT UNTIL THIS
PROCESS IS COMPLETED.
PLEASE BEGIN EVALUATING
THE
ADMINISTRATOR.
I THINK THE GENERAL CRITERIA
THAT WE NEED IN THE PAST
ADMINISTRATORS WHO CAN
PORTERING HE'S THE SENIOR STAFF
AND FOR WORKING SESSION TO GET
UPDATES FROM SENIOR STAFF AND
GIVE YOU THE PUBLIC THE
OPPORTUNITY TO ASK QUESTIONS.
THREE FINALLY SET A TIME FIND
IT IRONIC THAT THIS RESOLUTION
REPEATEDLY EMPHASIZES
ACCOUNTABILITY BUT FAILED TO
MENTION ANY NEED TO GIVE THAT
DEADLINE PULL TOGETHER A ONE
PAGER OF CURRENT PRACTICES AND
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT AND DATA
TRANSPARENCY.
WORK OUT A TIMELINE FOR KEEPING
THE REST OF THE STEPS IN YOUR
RESOLUTION.
PLEASE START THE ACCOUNTABILITY
NOW I WANT TO ADD THE
PRIORITIZATION THE DASHBOARD
PROCESS IN PLACE WHICH WILL
TAKE SOME TIME IF NOT FOR
CONTINUING LACK OF PROGRESS ON
CRITICAL ISSUES LIKE ZONING AND
HOUSING AND THE BACKSLIDING ON
THANKS FOR YOUR TIME ATTENTION
AND MOVING FORWARD ON THE
TIMELINE TO RESOLUTION.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEX LOWE.
ALEX LOWE, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
GO AHEAD
.
HI, THIS IS ALEX CALLING FROM
EAST SOUTHEAST ANOTHER I'M
CALLING YOU TODAY WITH MIXED
FEELINGS ABOUT DC TO THE
TRAFFIC ON THE PROGRAM.
ON THE ONE HAND THIS IS A GOOD
START AND I REALLY APPRECIATE
THAT IT REALLY IS A GOOD START
.
BUT ON THE OTHER HAND IT READS
TO ME IS QUITE TIMID AND
HONESTLY INSUFFICIENT.
FIRST I'D LIKE TO SEE THE
DEALER INCLUSION OF AN
EXPLICITLY MENTIONED OF A LIFE
SAVING PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLE
SAFETY DEVICES BUT IT'S IN THE
LIST OF SPEED CONTROL ELEMENTS
AS IS DESPITE BEING A PART
OF NATURAL GUIDELINES, THE CITY
IS ENTIRELY UNWILLING TO DO THE
TRADE OFF OF SOME POTENTIAL
DAMAGE TO A CAR THAT THAT HAS
LEFT THE ROADWAY IN RETURN FOR
THE ENORMOUS BENEFIT OF NOT
KILLING.
FRANKLY, I DON'T SEE HOW THIS
IS ALL OVER THE REST OF THE
WORLD AND WE IN THE US ALONE I
HAVEN'T PERSONALLY SEEN ANY LOS
ANGELES, SAN DIEGO, CHICAGO,
NASHVILLE AND EVEN IN OUR OWN
BACKYARD IN DETROIT.
IN FACT I LOOKED ON GOOGLE MAPS
AND HAD ARTICLES OF ARTICLES
AND AS IT TURNS OUT OUR CITY'S
NUMBER ONE RIVAL COLUMBUS, OHIO
HAS REAL THAT NOT JUST LOOK AT
THEIR OWN SPORTS COMPLEX.
WE REALLY GET A LITTLE BIT
OF ONE LOCATION WHERE OUR LIVES
ESPECIALLY REMOVABLE ONES WOULD
BE A HUGE IMPROVEMENT IS THE
NEW STATUS IF WE AREN'T WILLING
TO MAKE THIS AREA THE PERMANENT
ADDRESS IMPLIES THAT DRAINAGE
SHOULD BE FOR THE SAFETY
OF EVERYONE.
WE SHOULD BE AT A MINIMUM BE
WILLING TO ACT TO PROTECT
PEOPLE IF THEY ON FOOT IN
WHEELCHAIRS.
IT'S UNREALISTIC FOR FROM MULTI
THOUSAND POUND MEDICAL DEVICES
HURTLING AT.
ADDITIONALLY, THIS RESOLUTION
SHOULD BE A BIT MORE
AUTHORITATIVE WHEN WE'RE MOVING
THE GROUP IN THE EUROPEAN
COUNCIL FOR TRAFFIC, A PROJECT
THAT'S A GREAT START THAT ANY
STREET MAINTENANCE THAT
INCLUDES THE WHOLE ISLAND
ISLANDS OR RESURFACING SHOULD
BE REQUIRED TO INCLUDE TRAFFIC
COMING IN SAFETY AND SAFETY.
30 SECONDS IS NOT TO ADD TO TO
INCLUDE ELEMENTS LIKE SIDEWALK
LEVEL GRASS OR PEDESTRIAN
PROTECTING OUR ROADS AND
PROTECTED BY SUGARCRM.
I ASKED TO REPORT WHY THEY HAVE
CHOSEN NOT TO INCLUDE THIS IS
ESPECIALLY IMPORTANT FOR
SCHOOLS TIMESTEP AND MIDDLE
SCHOOLS.
DISTRICTS TEND TO HAVE TO STATE
EITHER THEIR QUIET PEACEFUL
NEIGHBORHOOD STREETS OR TO
HEALTH WITH PEOPLE DRIVING LIKE
MANIACS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHY
GRISWOLD.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL.
I WAS DREADING COMING OUT TODAY
.
I JUST RETURNED FROM TEN DAYS
IN INCLINE VILLAGE, NEVADA BUT
I FOUND THE SPEAKERS BOTH
ENTERTAINING, INFORMATIVE AND I
AGREED WITH MOST OF WHAT THEY
SAID.
SO THIS IS GREAT.
IT SEEMS LIKE YOUNG PEOPLE ARE
STARTING TO AGREE WITH ME OR
I'M STARTING TO AGREE WITH THEM
ANYWAY.
THE THEME OF MY TALK TONIGHT IS
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES
SOMETIMES UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCES ARE JUST
INCONVENIENT BUT AS A PRIOR
SPEAKER MENTIONED, SOMETIMES
THEY RESULT IN DEATH IN A
ROADWAY REGARDING TRAFFIC
CALMING.
I THINK IT'S ABSOLUTELY
CRITICAL THAT WE LOOK AT THE
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES IF WE
ARE PUTTING TRAFFIC COMING ON
ONE STREET WE NEED TO LOOK AT
THE PARALLEL STREETS AND THAT
IS SOMETHING THAT SAM SCHWARTZ
RECOMMENDS.
SAM SCHWARTZ, A CONSULTANT WHO
DID VISION ZERO.
THERE IS AN EXCELLENT EXAMPLE
OF WHAT THEY DID WITH THE
BUSWAY ON 14TH STREET IN NEW
YORK CITY.
SO WE NEED TO BE MORE
METHODICAL IN OUR
IMPLEMENTATION AND CONSIDER
THOSE UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES
NEXT WE NEED TO LOOK AT SCHOOL
ACROSS BLOCKS.
I BROUGHT THIS FORWARD AT THE
LAST MEETING AND I WAS REALLY
CONCERNED ABOUT OVERGROWN
VEGETATION BECAUSE THAT'S ONE
OF MY PET PEEVES.
BUT THE FIRST THREE PEOPLE I
SHOWED IT TO SAID WHY ISN'T THE
CROSSWALK MARKET IT'S LIKE I
DON'T KNOW AND THEN I CHECKED
IN THE CROSSWALK DESIGN
GUIDELINES WHICH WE SPENT
CONSIDERABLE TIME ON DEFINITELY
SPECIFIES THAT IT SHOULD BE
MARKED AND SO AGAIN AND
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES WE
OVERLOOK THIS AND WHEN I WENT
DOWN THERE TODAY I COUNTED OVER
FIFTY CAR THAT WERE PARKED
ALONG ON THIS AREA INCLUDING
RIGHT THROUGH THE CROSSWALK
BECAUSE I DON'T THINK PARENTS
EVEN KNEW IT WAS A CROSSWALK
BECAUSE IT WAS IT MARKED MY
LAST AREA IS THAT WE ARE
WRONGLY CHARGED PEOPLE AND
ENDANGERING PEDESTRIANS AND
WANTED SAMPLE IS THE CORNER
OF BEEKS KINGSLY AND MAIN
STREET.
THERE WAS A GREAT GREYHOUND BUS
DRIVER WHO HIT A PEDESTRIAN.
I'VE GONE DOWN THERE.
I'VE LOOKED AT OTHER ENGINEERS
HAVE LOOKED AT IT ALSO IT IS
HUMANLY IMPOSSIBLE TO SEE A
PEDESTRIAN IN THAT CROSSWALK
BECAUSE THERE IS INADEQUATE
LIGHTING AT THE CROSSWALK AND
THERE AND THERE ARE BRIGHT
GLOBES THAT THE DENHA PUT IN
JUST BEYOND THAT.
SO YOU'RE LOOKING AT A GLARE
AND YOU CAN'T EVEN SEE A
PEDESTRIAN THERE.
SO I HOPE THAT YOU WILL
IMPLEMENT SAFER CROSSWALKS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
STOLLBERG
TOM STALBERG PHONE
NUMBER IN FIVE THREE FOUR STAR
SIX ON MUTE YOUR PHONE GO AHEAD
.
FAST FORWARD CALL LOWERTOWN.
HOWEVER, I SEE A LEVEL
OF UNLIKE OTHER PEOPLE I PICK A
THEME.
I THINK THE EXPECTATION AND I
HAVE TO AGREE TO ACCOUNT FOR
THAT DEFINITION IS WHEN THEY
VOTED FOR THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING HAVE THEIR EXPECTATIONS
AND SOME OF THAT EXPECTATION IS
BASED ON THE LANGUAGE IN SOME
OF THEIR EXPECTATION WAS BASED
ON THINGS LIKE PUTTING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS ON THE
OLD WHY NOT?
WHICH HAS BEEN TALKED ABOUT A
LOT AND ONE OF THE KEY REASONS
THAT WE WERE GOING HAVE A LOT
THAT WE ARE MADE AVAILABLE FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING TO KEEP THE
COST DOWN.
THE EXPECTATIONS WERE NOT MET
WHEN WE HAD TO FIND OUT HOW
MUCH MONEY THAT DEFINES A LOT
THAT WE ARE THIS IS OUR TIME TO
UNDERSTAND WHERE WE'RE AT WITH
AND THERE MAY BE GOOD NEWS FOR
THE REST OF THE MONEY BUT AGAIN
EXPECTATIONS THAT PETITION
SHOULD HAVE A DISCUSSION OF WHY
THE REST OF THE MONEY IS GOING
WHERE IT'S GOING TO BE GOOD
BECAUSE THEY GOT IT ANYWAY.
WE HAVE EXPECTATIONS OF THAT
WHILE WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING, WE HAVE
CERTAIN EXPECTATIONS.
THERE IS NINETY THREE PEOPLE
THAT WE ARE NOT HOUSING BECAUSE
OUR CITIZENS HAD OUR
EXPECTATIONS BROKEN WHEN THE
CITY IMPROPERLY ILLEGALLY
APPROVED OUR TOWN NINE BILLION
OR NINE MILLION GALLONS OF THAT
WAS LOST IN A TV IN THE SKY THE
EXACT SAME PLAN IT FAILED IS A
BEAUTY AND THERE'S NO REASON IT
WASN'T ELECTROBOY NINETY THREE
NINETY THREE PEOPLE OR MORE
COULD BE MORE THAN ONE QUESTION
YOU THAT I'M NOT GOING TO GET
THAT AFFORDABLE OUT LATER WE'RE
GOING TO TALK ABOUT THIRTY
THREE POINT THIRTY THREE YEARS
OF AFFORDABLE.
ARE YOU READY TO GIVE AWAY
BENEFITS
FOR PRIVATE INTERESTS
AND THAT HOLE IN THE WALL YET
AGAIN WE GO BEFORE HOUSING
THOSE WE OUGHT TO DISCUSS WITH
WASHINGTON AND THAT WE HAVE
MONEY THERE BECAUSE THAT'S
RIGHT.
THEY CAN QUALIFY WELL FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING TO THE TAX
CREDIT AND OTHER FAMILY BECAUSE
I PLAN TO ATTRACT A THREE
SECONDS.
WE BOTH KNOW THAT WE CAN GO
VACATION AND WE'RE GETTING THE
TV THERE.
CAN WE SAY THE PAYMENT NETWORK
?
I WANT THE TV THEIR MONEY TO
PAYMENT AND LITTLE AND THEN
IT'S GOING TO GET TAKEN OUT.
WE'RE GOING TO GET ONE FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FOR
WASHINGTON IN PART BECAUSE WE
DIDN'T HAVE THE EXPECTATIONS
THAT WERE SET TIME THREE.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TRICIA
DUCKWORTH
.
IF MISS DUCKWORTH IS ON THE
RESUME CALL, CAN YOU PLEASE
RAISE YOUR HAND WITH PRESSING
STAR NINE
MARY DON'T SEE MISS
DUCKWORTH ON THE CALL IS
DUCKWORTH.
IF YOU'RE AVAILABLE PLEASE
ENTER STAR NINE
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BRANDON
DEMCHAK.
BRANDON DEMCHUK COMMENT I
COUNCIL UP FRONT WITH LARRY IN
FORT WORTH.
I'M CALLING I THINK THE
SPONSORS OF THIS ISSUE AND TO
REQUEST THAT YOU APPROVE THIS
RESOLUTION OUR NEIGHBORHOOD HAS
BEEN FRUSTRATED BY SPEEDING
DRIVERS FOR YEARS AND WHILE
SOME OF OUR STREETS HAVE
RECEIVED TRAFFIC COMING, THE
EXISTING PROCESS FOR HAVING
YOUR ROAD HARMED IS INCREDIBLY
CUMBERSOME STREAMLINING PROCESS
AND MAKING IT AUTOMATIC DURING
YOUR OWN WORK IS A GREAT
IMPROVEMENT FURTHER ON THIS
MODEL OF CHOOSING SAFETY LIKE
WE THOUGHT SHOULD BE APPLIED TO
OTHER ROADWORK AS WELL.
I NOTICED FOR EXAMPLE, THE
RECENT TACHIRA SURFACING LEFT
THE LANES EXCESSIVELY.
WHY DIDN'T BUFFER THE BIKE
LANES ACTUALLY DECREASE SAFETY
BY REMOVING THE GATEWAY
TREATMENT AT CROSSWALKS AND THE
GREEN PAINT IN CONFLICT ZONES
IT WOULD BE NEARLY THREE TO
MAKE SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS DURING
THIS PROJECT SIMPLY SIMPLY BY
PAINTING SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT
LINES ON THE ROAD WE SHOULD NOT
LEAVE OPPORTUNITIES LIKE THIS
ON THE TABLE.
THE CITY OF TEXAS AND
NEIGHBORHOOD STREETS.
WE DEFINITELY NEED SOME BETTER
RESULTS ELSEWHERE TO SO ONCE
AGAIN PLEASE REMOVE DC TWO AND
CONSIDER EXPANDING TO THE CITY
BY DEFAULT CONCEPT TO MEET THE
RENT IN A FUTURE RESOLUTION.
THANK YOU.
ARE ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM COUNCIL COUNCILMAN
BRITISH THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR.
I WOULD LIKE TO ANNOUNCE THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON AND I
WILL BE HAVING OUR WHAT WE'RE
GOING TO CALL IN AN OPTIMISTIC
WAY OUR QUARTERLY COFFEE , OUR
MONDAY SEPTEMBER TWENTY FIFTH
FROM FIVE THIRTY TO SIX THIRTY
IN THE MULTIPURPOSE ROOM OF THE
ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY.
PLEASE COME PLEASE COME.
IF WE HAVEN'T MET YOU BEFORE
PLEASE COME MAYBE EVEN IF YOU
DON'T LIVE IN OUR WARD WE DON'T
MIND AND TOMORROW I WANT TO
REMIND EVERYONE THAT TOMORROW
WHICH IS SEPTEMBER 6TH JUST IN
CASE EVERYONE IS DISORIENTED BY
THE HOLIDAY THERE WILL BE A
TOWN HALL REGARDING THE N14
EASTBOUND ENTRANCE AND EXIT AND
THIS WILL BE HELD IT'S
ORGANIZED BY SENATOR SOUCHAK
AND IT WILL BE HELD AT WINZ
ELEMENTARY FROM SIX THIRTY TO
EIGHT P.M. AND THERE WILL IT
WILL BEGIN WITH PRESENTATIONS
BY CITY AND I AM REGARDING
THEIR PLANS FOR THE EXIT AND
THEN THERE WILL BE TIME FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT AND HONESTLY
PUBLIC COMMENT EVEN THOUGH THEY
HAD A BUNCH OF WRITTEN PUBLIC
COMMENT IS STILL REALLY WELCOME
HERE BECAUSE THE PROJECT IS
NEITHER SCHEDULED OR FUNDED NOR
FUNDED BY DOT AT THIS MOMENT.
AND SO ANYTHING THAT THEY PLAN
TO DO NOW WHETHER THEY PLAN TO
AMELIORATE IT WOULD BE GREAT
WHETHER THEY CLOSE IT UNTIL
THEY CAN GET THE PROJECT UP AND
RUNNING.
IT'S IT'S WE'RE ON AN UNCERTAIN
TIMELINE AND SO RESIDENT
FEEDBACK WOULD REALLY BE
APPRECIATED.
COUNCILOR BRYER, THANK YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE A QUICK
NOTE REGARDING ONE OF THE
PUBLIC COMMENTS, THE ONE FROM
OUR FRIEND AND FORMER COUNCIL
MEMBER KIRK WESTFALL REGARDING
THE RESOLUTION TO IMPROVE DATA
TRANSPARENCY.
A COUPLE OF THINGS WERE
MENTIONED.
ONE THE REVIEWS THE PERFORMANCE
REVIEWS FOR THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR AND I WOULD ADD
THE CITY ATTORNEY AS WELL AND
AND THE SECOND WORK SESSIONS I
WANTED TO NOTE THAT BOTH
OF THOSE THINGS HAVE BEEN
DISCUSSED AT RECENT ADMIN
COMMITTEE MEETINGS AND WE ARE
CREATING A PLAN TO HAVE BRING
BACK SOME WORK SESSIONS IN THE
FUTURE.
AND AND WE ALSO ARE EMBARKING
ON THE PERFORMANCE REVIEW
PROCESS FOR BOTH THE CITY
ATTORNEY AS WELL AS THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR.
SO THOSE THINGS ARE UNDERWAY.
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT
THAT WAS NOTED.
COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA WELL
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I JUST WANTED TO NOTE THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER DARCY EDWYN AND
I WILL BE HAVING OUR NEXT WARD
COFFEY OUR ON SEPTEMBER TWENTY
SIXTH AT SIX PM AT MARLETTE'S
CREEK LIBRARY.
SO WELCOME TO THE COMMUNITY TO
JOIN US.
THANKS SO RACKMAN.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
A COUPLE OF ANNOUNCEMENTS AS
OF SEPTEMBER 1ST THE PLAYGROUND
IMPROVEMENTS ARE DONE AT
ALLMENDINGER PARK SO STOP BY.
THERE'S A LOG LIKE A LOG JAM
THING, A TOWER OF BOULDERS,
LOTS OF FUN STUFF FOR KIDS.
ALSO WANTED TO LET PEOPLE KNOW
THAT STAFF ARE HOSTING AN OPEN
HOUSE TO SHARE FINAL DESIGNS
AND TO ANSWER QUESTIONS ON THE
S SEVENTH IN GREENVIEW
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT.
THOSE WERE TWO PROJECTS BEFORE.
NOW THEY'VE BEEN COMBINED INTO
ONE.
SO THAT IS GOING TO BE
SEPTEMBER WHEN HE FIRST AT SIX
P.M. AT THE PITTSVILLE BRANCH
LIBRARY NEARBY RESIDENTS SHOULD
BE RECEIVING A POSTCARD SOON IF
THEY HAVEN'T ALREADY AND
INFORMATION WILL BE POSTED
SHORTLY TO THE PROJECT WEBSITE
.
I ALSO WANTED TO USE MY TIME
HERE TONIGHT TO SAY A FEW WORDS
ABOUT MINIMUM SIZES AND ITS
ROLE IN LAND-USE REFORM THIS IS
ON MY MIND FOR TWO KEY REASONS.
IN OUR LAST MEETING WE APPROVED
ZONING ANNEX TOWNSHIP PARCELS
TO A SINGLE FAMILY ZONING
CATEGORY WITH A MINIMUM SIZE
OF FIVE THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
AND THEN LAST WEEK COUNCIL
MEMBER IRONI HAD THE CHANCE TO
MEET WITH THE TEAM.
THE CONSULTANTS ARE HELPING US
WITH THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN SO I THINK LAND-USE REFORM
IS ONE OF THE MOST IMPACTFUL
TOOLS THAT A CITY GOVERNMENT
HAS TO INFLUENCE HOUSING
AVAILABILITY, HOUSING PRICES AS
WELL AS THE LIVABILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR
COMMUNITIES AND MINIMUM LOT
SIZES AS A REGULATORY TOOL SETS
A FLOOR FOR LAND COSTS SO LARGE
MINIMUM LOT SIZES ARE FIVE
THOUSAND BECAME PRETTY STANDARD
AND POSTWAR SUBURBS THEY'VE
RESULTED IN DRIVING HOUSING
PRICES AND MANDATING A SPREAD
OUT DEVELOPMENT AND SPRAWL
BECAUSE FEWER HOMES CAN
LITERALLY BE BUILT IN A SPACE
NOT TO MENTION EXCLUDING
RESIDENTS THAT CANNOT AFFORD
THE AMOUNT OF SQUARE FOOTAGE
THAT IS REQUIRED.
DOES THAT MAKE SENSE IN RURAL
TOWNSHIP ENVIRONMENT BECAUSE
THERE'S AN ARGUMENT MADE THAT
YOU NEED LARGE LATT TO
ACCOMMODATE SEPTIC FIELDS AND
WELLS FOR DRINKING WATER.
BUT FOR HANOVER WHERE HOUSING
PRICES CONTINUE TO SKYROCKET,
WE CAN'T MEET OUR HOUSING NEEDS
NEEDS.
I THINK WE REALLY NEED TO APPLY
A CRITICAL EYE TO MANDATES THAT
BASICALLY FORCE LOT SIZES MUCH
HIGHER THAN FIVE THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET.
SO THERE IS AN EXTREME DECISION
THAT PROVIDED A SMALL
OPPORTUNITY TO LOOK CRITICALLY
AT THIS REGULATION AND I HOPE
THAT WE CONTINUE TO LOOK AT
THIS AS WE EMBARK ON A
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PROCESS.
THANK YOU, COUNCILOR GARCIA.
I THANK YOU, MAYOR.
SO I WANT TO PERSONALLY THANK
KOSMA AND CHAIR OF CHOTISAK
DAMON FOR YOUR COMMENTS IN
SUPPORT OF THE PROCLAMATION FOR
DISABILITY VOTING RIGHTS WEEK.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK CLARK
BRODERIE FOR ALL THE WORK THAT
SHE HAS DONE WHICH IS YOU KNOW,
IT'S BEEN IT'S BEEN RECOGNIZED
STATEWIDE FOR A REASON ON
ACCESSIBLE AND SAFE VOTING
PRACTICES AND ALL THE WORK THAT
YOU'RE CONTINUING TO DO AND I
WANT TO NOTE THAT THE
PROCLAMATION ALSO MENTIONED
THAT THE CITY IS SEEKING AN
ELECTION CENTER AND I THINK IT
WILL ENABLE US TO HAVE EVEN
MORE EFFICIENT, SECURE AND
ACCESSIBLE ELECTIONS.
IN ADDITION, I WANT TO INVITE
EVERYONE TO COME OUT TO THE
THIRD ANNUAL ASIAN BLACK
SOLIDARITY PICNIC THIS SATURDAY
FROM ONE TO FIVE P.M. AND
MONTEREY PARK A GREAT TIME AND
IT'S JUST TO CELEBRATE THE
ONGOING WORK OF THESE TWO
COMMUNITIES WHO ARE DOING TO
SUPPORT EACH OTHER.
SO COME OUT RUSSELL, I IT'S
BACK TO SCHOOL.
I'M SO HAPPY TO SEE OUR WALKING
BUS IN THE KING'S SCHOOL
NEIGHBORHOOD CONTINUE ITS WORK.
WE HAVE OVER TWENTY FAMILIES
WHO'VE MET FOR THE AT LEAST THE
PAST TEN YEARS TOGETHER GATHER
AND WALK AND AVOID DRIVING AND
BEING PART OF THE TRAFFIC
BECAUSE WE ARE TRAFFIC.
IT'S IT'S IT'S A WONDERFUL
CELEBRATION, A TRADITION.
I HOPE TO SEE THAT IN OTHER
PARTS OF THE COMMUNITY I SEE
THE KIDS IN
THEIR FAMILIES
REALLY ENJOYING THE CROSSWALK
AND PLEASURE GOING TO KING
SCHOOL IN SPOKANE TERRACROSS
AND GO VERONICA WHO FEEL SAFER
IN THE THERE'S LITTLE MEDIAN IN
THE MIDDLE TO WHERE SHE CAN
STAND IN DIRECT TRAFFIC AS WELL
AS AND THEN INCREASINGLY AS THE
KIDS GREW OLDER WE CAN SEE THEM
ACTUALLY RIDING THEIR BIKES TO
SCHOOL TOO BECAUSE THEY ARE
CROSSING GUARDS WHO RIDE
EARLIER AND WITH THE NEW BIKE
LANES ENCLOSURE IT'S BEEN
REALLY HEARTENING TO SEE THEM
USE THE BIKE LANES AND FEEL
SAFE TO RIDE WITH THEIR
FAMILIES THIS SUNDAY THERE IS A
GFX WALK IN MY WALK A MILE IN
MY SHOES EVENT IN SUPPORT
OF REFUGEES.
WE ARE EXPECTING ADDITIONAL
FAMILIES COMING TO ANN ARBOR BY
THE END OF THIS MONTH THEY'LL
BE THE SUN AT BRYNN'S PARK
ELEMENTARY FROM NINE TO ONE.
I WILL BE THERE AS A BOARD
MEMBER.
A NOTE ABOUT THE BLACK ASIAN
SOLIDARITY PICNIC THIS CAME OUT
OF A TRAGEDY THREE YEARS AGO
WHERE VIETNAMESE AMERICAN MAN
HAD SHOT A YOUNG BLACK CHILD IN
YPSILANTI.
I'M REALLY HEARTENED TO SEE
THAT THE CONVERSATION HAS MOVED
FROM WHAT IS SAFETY TO WHAT IS
COMMUNITY AND REFLECTION ON OUR
SHARED CIVIL RIGHTS WORK WITH
COMMUNITY LEADERS AND COMMUNITY
ORGANIZERS AND OUR CHILDREN.
SO WE BRING OUR CHILDREN AND WE
HAVE GOOD FOOD AND IT'S IT'S A
TRADITION SO AND I ALSO WANT TO
THANK OUR COUNTY I'M SORRY
TOWNSHIP SUPERVISOR VIDEGARAY
WELL WHO IS THE HOST OF THIS
AND IF YOU CAN'T PLEASE THANK
HER ALSO FOR ALLOWING FOR A
NUMBER OF HOUSING UNITS IN HER
TOWNSHIP.
I THINK PITTSVILLE TOWNSHIP
OUTPACES EVERYONE ELSE IN
WASHINGTON COUNTY WHEN IT COMES
TO HOUSING UNITS SEPTEMBER SIX
TOMORROW THERE'S AN IMPORTANT
MEETING ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO COME
AND VOICE THEIR SUPPORT FOR
ADDITIONAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING
RENTALS.
THERE IS A MEETING WITH THE
COUNTY, THE COUNTY URBAN
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE IS MEETING
AT 2:00 P.M. VIRTUALLY AND THIS
IS ALLOCATING FOUR POINT FIVE
SIX MILLION FROM THE HOME
INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP.
OUR AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN
FUNDING ALLOCATION.
SO PREVIOUSLY OF DRAFT PLAN HAD
GONE OUT ZEROING OUT THE
DOLLARS FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AND NOW THERE IS IT LOOKS LIKE
THERE IS AN ALLOCATION OF FORTY
PERCENT OF THAT GOING TOWARDS
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
PLEASE VOICE YOUR SUPPORT TO
ENSURE THAT THAT ACTUALLY COMES
THROUGH THE FACIAL RECOGNITION
BAN WORK CONTINUES.
WE HAVE ADDITIONAL SUPPORT FROM
THE ACLU AND AN ORGANIZATION ON
DIGITAL RIGHTS AND IN PRIVACY
CALLED FIGHT FOR THE FIGHT FOR
THE FUTURE.
SO WE'RE WORKING ON ADDITIONAL
LANGUAGE AND POTENTIAL
IMPLEMENTATION.
I GUARANTEED INCOME PROJECT
SITE HAS LAUNCHED AND THAT'S
DUE TO DOUG.
THANK YOU.
THAT'S A LOT OVER BRIGS.
I JUST WANTED TO PROVIDE AN
UPDATE FOR THOSE IN THE FIFTH
WARD ANXIOUS TO PROVIDE INPUT
ON WEST PARK BANDSHELL.
WE HAVE MEETINGS THAT HAVE BEEN
STARTING TO GET SCHEDULED SO
AND ALSO THERE'S POP UP EVENTS.
SO TODAY'S EVENT THERE WAS
SUPPOSED TO BE A POP UP
SCHEDULED AT WEST PARK BUT IT
WAS BECAUSE OF THE HEAT IT'S
MOVED TO FRIDAY IS COMING
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8TH FROM ONE
TO THREE P.M. AND THERE'S
ANOTHER ONE ON NEXT MONDAY,
SEPTEMBER ELEVENTH FROM ONE TO
THREE P.M. THESE ARE SORT
INFORMAL TIMES YOU CAN GO TALK
TO PARK STAFF, PROVIDE PROVIDE
FEEDBACK AND GET QUESTIONS
ANSWERED.
THERE'S ALSO A SURVEY THAT'S UP
ON THE PROJECT WEBSITE THAT YOU
CAN FILL OUT AND THAT'S OPEN
UNTIL SEPTEMBER 18TH AND THEN
THE FIRST VIRTUAL INFORMATION
SESSION WHICH FOLKS ARE
STARTING TO RECEIVE POSTCARDS
IN THE MAIL ABOUT THAT IS GOING
TO BE ON ALSO NEXT MONDAY,
SEPTEMBER ELEVENTH.
THE MEETING BEGINS AT SIX
THIRTY PM AND THAT WILL INCLUDE
A BROADER KIND OF ARRAY
OF COMMUNITY MEMBERS AND IS IS
MORE ACCESSIBLE FORMAT AND THEN
THERE'S ALSO GOING TO BE SOME
IN-PERSON MEETINGS THAT ARE BE
SCHEDULED FOR LATE SEPTEMBER OR
EARLY OCTOBER .
SO KEEP AN EYE ON THE WEST PARK
BANDSHELL PROJECT PAGE ALSO
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL AND I
ARE HAVING OUR MONTHLY
LISTENING HOURS ON SUNDAY THE
NEXT ONE SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 17TH
AT FOUR P.M. AT THE END OF THE
ART CENTER WHERE THE
COMMUNICATION FROM KELSALL
CALCIO MCCONNELL THANK YOU
MAYOR.
I JUST WANTED TO I'VE READ
THINGS RECENTLY ABOUT
QUESTIONING ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN PROCESS.
I KNOW THAT THIS IS A MASSIVE
PROCESS THAT THE CITY IS
UNDERGOING.
THERE MAY BE SOME CONFUSION
ABOUT IT TO BE CLEAR IT IS
GOING TO BE TAKING PLACE OVER
THE NEXT 18 MONTHS WHICH FEELS
EXCRUCIATINGLY SLOW BUT IS I
THINK IMPORTANT TO TAKE TIME A
COUPLE OF THINGS ARE COMING UP
VERY SOON FOR FOLKS TO ENGAGE
WITH THE CITY TO OFFER INPUT ON
THIS PROCESS.
SEPTEMBER 15TH PARKING DAY THAT
IS A NATIONAL MOVEMENT THAT HAS
A LOCAL PRESENCE HERE AND THERE
WILL BE REPRESENTATIVES FROM
THE CITY AND THE CITY'S STAFF
TO HEAR WHAT YOUR VISION FOR
THE FUTURE OF THE CITY IS.
AND THEN THE SECOND ONE AND I
HOPE I'M NOT STEALING MAYOR
TAYLOR'S THUNDER IS AT THE
MAYOR'S GREEN FAIR ON SEPTEMBER
22ND.
SO IF YOU COME TO EITHER ONE
OF THOSE THEN YOU WILL HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK WITH CITY
STAFF ABOUT THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN PROCESS AND OFFER SOME
INPUT INTO IT.
I THINK THE SECOND THING TO
NOTE REALLY QUICKLY IS THAT
THERE WILL BE A STEERING
COMMITTEE THAT DURING THIS
PROCESS WILL MEET ABOUT FIVE TO
SIX TIMES, WHICH IS A REALLY
IMPORTANT WAY TO BE ENGAGED AS
WELL, ESPECIALLY IF YOU CARE
ABOUT LAND USE AND
TRANSPORTATION AND ALL THE
THINGS THAT MAKE ANN ARBOR
LIVABLE AND PRETTY AWESOME.
KEEP AN EYE OUT FOR THAT ON THE
CITY'S WEBSITE AND I WILL BE
PROVIDING UPDATES ON THAT AS
WELL AS MORE OF THOSE PLANS
MATERIALIZE.
BUT SEPTEMBER 15TH AND
SEPTEMBER 22ND ARE TWO
IMMEDIATE OPPORTUNITIES TO
WEIGH IN ON THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN PROCESS COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL.
WE HAVE THE FORCE CONSENT
AGENDA AND HAVE A MOTION PLEASE
TO APPROVE THE CONSENT AGENDA
MOVE BY CAST MEMBER CORNELL 2ND
BY KELDERMAN BRIER DISCUSSION
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA ON FAVOR
POSED THE CONSENT AGENDA IS
APPROVED.
ELEVEN COUNCIL TEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE TO SATISFY THE
EIGHT REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT
TO A NINE, TEN AND ELEVEN WE
NOW COME TO A SET OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL IN THE COMMITTEE ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK
AT A PUBLIC HEARING YOU NEED
NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
A SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS
TO SAY THE SPECIFIC AND RELATED
ITEM ON THE AGENDA.
SPEAKERS BOTH HERE AND ONLINE
WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL
NOTIFY YOU OR THE TABLE.
THE TIMER WILL NOTIFY WHEN
THIRTY SECONDS ARE REMAINING
AND BOTH WHEN YOUR TIME HAS
EXPIRED, WHEN YOUR TIME HAS
EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND SEE THE FLOOR
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE AN
AUDIENCE TO MANY SECTIONS 5.1
FIVE FIVE ONE SIX AND FIVE ONE
SEVEN OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
TITLE FIVE IF THE CODE OF THE
STEVAN ARBOR TSAY ONE USES AUTO
RELATED IN DC ONE DEVELOPMENT
USE SPECIFIC STANDARDS TRANSIT
CORRIDOR ADDITIONAL STANDARDS
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE IN LINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT
ALIQUOT?
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
I HAD HEARD COUNSEL IT'S ME
AGAIN.
I MIXED ABOUT THIS AGAIN THAT
IS THERE'S A LOT OF GOOD STUFF
HERE AND SOME STUFF THAT IT'S
NOT GREAT.
CAN WE CAN WE PLEASE REFRAIN
FROM ALLOWING HARMFUL 77 TO GET
NINETY PERCENT OF THE CITY
THAT'S ALLOWED?
WE'VE REGARD THE ENTIRE
TOWNSHIP AREAS WHERE THAT'S
ALLOWED.
CAN WE JUST LEAVE IT LEAVE IT
AS AS IS AND NOT NOT ALLOW THIS
FOR ALL OF DEALERSHIPS
ESPECIALLY THE SORTS
OF DEALERSHIPS THAT CAN
ACTUALLY CONNECT TO WORK
EMPLOYEES WHICH ARE TYPICALLY
FOR MUCH MORE EXPENSIVE CARS.
MOST PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BE
ABLE TO AFFORD AND INSTEAD
FOCUS FOCUS ON WE'RE GOING TO
BE ALLOWING CAR LET'S TRY TO
FOCUS ON THINGS LIKE ZIPCAR OR
OTHER SORT OF SHORT TERM CAR
SERVICES AND MAYBE EVEN
DROPPING OFF CAUSE FOR
RESIDENTS IN ONE AREAS SO SO
THAT THEY DON'T HAVE TO HAVE
RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE OF THIS
OTHERWISE NICE AREA.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
MICHELLE HUGHES, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
YEAH.
ALSO THINK THAT WE SHOULD KEEP
CARS CAR BUSINESS OUT OF THE DC
ONE AREA THE DC ONE AREA IS
SUPPOSED TO BE FOR FOR HUMANS
PEDESTRIANS, FOR PEOPLE WHO
LIVE THERE AND ALLOWING CAR
SALES AND CAR BUSINESSES.
CAR REPAIR IS THE OPPOSITE
OF HUMANS.
I THINK THAT IT'S BEEN AMPLY
DEMONSTRATED THAT CARS ARE THE
OPPOSITE OF HUMANS WHEN IT
COMES TO THE CITY AND WE CAN'T
SIGN TIMEOUSLY DESIGN FOR BOATS
SO GIVEN THE CHOICE I CHOOSE
HUMANS
.
SO YEAH, PLEASE DON'T ALLOW
THESE CAR BUSINESSES INTO DC
ONE.
IT'S JUST A BAD IDEA.
IT TAKES A IT UNDERCUTS MANY
OF THE GOALS OF DC ONE SO LET'S
NOT DO WHAT WE'VE THANK MAYOR.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER COLORS
ON THE LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
SEE NO ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC HEARING NO TO AN
AUDIENCE TO ADD CHAPTER ONE
ZERO SIX HOME ENERGY RATING
DISCLOSURE TO TITLE EIGHT
BUILDING REGULATIONS OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY ANN ARBOR.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
PLEASE JUST KONNA.
THANK YOU MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
MY NAME'S CAMERON KO'D.
I'M REPRESENTING THE NRA ER
BARBARA WALTERS AND LIKE TO
JUST KIND OF START OUT AND
THANK YOU FOR LETTING ME SPEAK
AND KIND OF VOICE HER CONCERNS.
WE TALKED A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO
.
WE TALKED A LOT ABOUT THE TIME
THAT'S BEEN SPENT ON THIS THAT
THE ENERGY COMMISSION HAS SPENT
MANY YEARS WORKING ON THIS.
WE SHOULDN'T BE DOING THIS FOR
THE ENERGY COMMISSION.
WE SHOULD BE DOING THIS BECAUSE
IT'S THE RIGHT THING TO DO.
REALTORS HAVE BEEN WORKING ON
THIS FOR A LONG TIME.
OUR FIRST MEETING WITH THE
ENERGY COMMISSION WAS JUNE
TWENTY EIGHTEEN MORE THAN FIVE
YEARS AGO AND OUT THAT TWO
MEMBERS TWO REALTORS BECAME
MEMBERS OF THE SUBCOMMITTEE
OF THE ENERGY COMMISSION, JACK
BROWN OF HOWARD HANNAH AND
CHRISSY GEORGE THE TRILLIUM
REAL ESTATE THEY WORKED WITH
THE SUBCOMMITTEE, MET MANY
TIMES.
THEY DID RESEARCH WORK.
THEY CONTACT US OTHER
CAPACITIES.
THEY CONTACTED OTHER
THERE ARE
SOME WONDERFUL STATISTICS AND
DATA THAT COMES OUT OF THESE
REPORTS THAT ARE VERY VALUABLE
TO THE CITY ITSELF BUT IN THE
END THERE WAS TRULY NO
MEASURABLE RESULTS THAT THE
BUYERS AFTER THEY RECEIVED
THESE REPORTS DID NOTHING WITH
THEM SIMPLY BECAUSE THEY
COULDN'T AFFORD IT.
THEY ARE HERE IN AN HOUR WHERE
WE TALKED ABOUT THIS LAST TIME
AVERAGE SALES PRICE DATE SIX
HUNDRED AND THIRTY THOUSAND
BUYERS ARE TAPPED OUT.
THEY'VE SPENT IT THERE AND TRUE
THERE ARE INCENTIVES AVAILABLE.
THEY CAN GET A THOUSAND TO
THREE FOUR THOUSAND DOLLARS.
BUT TO GET THOSE INCENTIVES,
WHAT DO THEY HAVE TO SPEND?
BUYERS ARE NOT GOING TO GO
FURTHER INTO DEBT TO ACTUALLY
MAKE THIS HAPPEN.
SO WE'RE SITTING HERE TODAY
SAYING THAT WE'RE GOING TO
FORCE SELLERS TO DO SOMETHING
THEY DON'T NEED AND WILL NEVER
USE BY DOING THE AUDIT AND
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE THE
SELLERS GIVE IT TO THE BUYER
AND TRUE, THE BUYER WILL HAVE
SOME USE FOR IT UP FRONT
THEY'LL SEE ANOTHER ESTIMATE
OF WHAT IT MIGHT COST.
THEY MAY BE ABLE TO USE THAT
NUMBER TO SAY IS THIS GOOD OR
BAD?
IF I'M LOOKING AT A HOUSE
THAT'S A ONE AND ONE THAT'S A
FIVE GIVES ME SOME NEGOTIATION
POWER MAYBE I CHOOSE THE FIVE
WHO KNOWS WHERE THAT FIVE IS
GOING TO BE.
BUT THE POINT IS IS THAT WE'RE
FORCING SOMEONE TO DO SOMETHING
THAT THEY DON'T REALLY NEED TO
DO GIVING IT TO SOMEONE THAT
WON'T USE IT.
IT JUST SEEMS LIKE A REAL WASTE
OF SOME CONSIDERABLE FUNDS THAT
WE'RE GOING TO SPEND TWO TO
THREE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS
A YEAR WITH THE WAY THAT US IS
CURRENTLY STRUCTURED.
WE LOOK AT STAFFING ALL IN
EXPENSES.
THIS IS A BIG EXPENSE.
LET'S FIND SOMEONE THAT WILL
ACTUALLY USE THESE REPORTS.
YOU HAVE THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
EVERY YEAR THAT ARE PUTTING
TOGETHER BUILDING PERMITS.
THEY'RE HIRING CONTRACTORS.
THEY'RE A PERFECT SOURCE FOR AN
AUDIENCE FOR WHETHER IT BE
ENFORCED OR WHETHER IT BE AN
OFFERING TO ACTUALLY USE THIS
TYPE OF AN ORDINANCE TO USE
THIS TYPE OF REPORT FOR SOME
REAL VALUE.
SO I WOULD ASK YOU TO REALLY
THINK ABOUT THIS THAT WHAT
WE'RE PLANNING TO DO IS NOT
GOING TO HELP US REACH OUR H0
GOALS.
I MEAN JACK AND CHRISSY
ULTIMATELY THEY WERE NEVER
ASKED TO COME BACK.
THEY WERE TOLD THEY WOULD THEY
WEREN'T BECAUSE THEY BASICALLY
WERE TOLD THAT WHAT THEY WERE
SAYING WASN'T REALLY IN THEIR
BEST INTEREST.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
ALEX, DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
YEP, IT'S ME AGAIN.
I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT I
REALLY LIKE THAT LIKE THIS AS
IS SOMEONE WHO IS AVERAGE
RECENTLY PURCHASED A HOUSE AND
AS SOMEONE WHO IS NOW GETTING
CLOSE TO SELLING A HOUSE.
SO FOR BOTH OF THAT PERSPECTIVE
THIS LOOKS GREAT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
, MISS MICHELLE
HUGHES, DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
OH, I ALSO THINK THIS ENERGY
DISCLOSURE IS GOING TO BE A
GOOD THING.
I THINK THAT WILL HAVE MORE
INFORMATION OUT THERE TO RAISE
AWARENESS OF HOME ENERGY.
I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE WANT TO
MAKE THEIR HOUSES MORE ENERGY
EFFICIENT AND THEY WANT TO DO
WHAT THEY WANT TO DO THEIR PART
AND THEY JUMP STRAIGHT TO
PUTTING SOLAR PANELS ON THEIR
HOUSE AND OTHER THINGS LIKE
THAT THAT MIGHT NOT BE THE MOST
COST EFFECTIVE WAY TO DO IT TO
INCREASE THEIR ENERGY
EFFICIENCY.
AND IF WE HAVE MORE AWARENESS
ABOUT WEATHERIZATION AND ENERGY
EFFICIENT HOW TO MAKE YOUR HOME
ENERGY EFFICIENT, THEN I MEAN
MAYBE EVERYBODY DOESN'T ACT ON
IT BUT MAYBE SOME PEOPLE WILL
AND THAT'S A WHOLE HECK OF A
LOT BETTER THAN NOBODY DOING IT
AND I DON'T SEE ANY DOWNSIDES
TO THIS.
WE'RE NOT THE BUYERS OF THE
SELLERS AREN'T REQUIRED TO MAKE
ANY UPGRADES.
I THINK THAT THE LAND THE
PRICES AROUND HERE ARE NOT THAT
THE HOUSING PRICES ARE NOT SUCH
THAT THEY'LL BE TREMENDOUSLY
AFFECTED BY A DISCLOSURE.
YOU'RE SAYING A BUNCH OF ENERGY
EFFICIENCY REPAIRS ARE GOING TO
BE NECESSARY, YOU KNOW, AND
IT'S JUST GOING TO BE IF PEOPLE
HAVE INFORMATION IT'S JUST
GOING TO BE THE COMMUNITY
HAVING AWARENESS AND I THINK
THAT GOOD THINGS WILL HAPPEN SO
PLEASE PASS THIS ORDINANCE.
THANK YOU
.
ROSS SMITH, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
OH GOD YES I DO.
UM, I'M IN SUPPORT OF THIS UM
LIKE SOMEONE RECENTLY THIS
WOULD HAVE BEEN INVALUABLE IN
MY RESEARCH BUT BUT HOUSING
THEY'RE BUYING HAD NO
INSULATION IN IT AND SOMETHING
THAT WASN'T EASY TO DETERMINE
FROM FROM THE LIMITED TIME I
HAD TO DO AN INSPECTION ON IT.
IT DEFINITELY WILL CHANGE MY
DECISION ON WHAT TO BUILD AND I
EXPECT OTHERS WOULD BE SIMILAR
EVEN IF IT DOESN'T INCENTIVIZE
OTHERS TO MAKE THE CHOICES
HAVING MORE INFORMATION OUT
THERE GIVES YOU SOME BETTER
METRICS ON HOW ENERGY WISE IN
THE CITY.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
COLOR WITH THE PHONE NUMBER AND
AGAIN FIVE THREE FOUR.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
GO AHEAD.
HELLO THIS IS TOM STALWARTLY.
YEAH ONE OF THE HATS THAT I
WEAR AND THE UPTAKE OF THE
BUYER'S BROKER I DO NOT EVER
SELL THE BUYERS.
MY CLIENTS WOULD NOT BE PAYING
FOR THIS OR MAYBE THERE IS
NOTHING TO REPORT MY CLIENT NOW
GET A HOME INSPECTION.
THE VAST MAJORITY OF THE
HOMOSEXUALS I HAVE HAD
EXPERIENCE WITH WOULD CALL OUT
THE LOW HANGING FRUIT THAT'S
PAYING FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY.
I WHEN EXPECTING A HOME FROM
THE CLIENT IF MY CLIENT ARE
DOING WORK AFTER THEY'VE MADE A
PURCHASE THEY'RE MORE LIKELY TO
DO THE MOST COST EFFECTIVE MOST
PEOPLE THAT BANG FOR YOUR BUCK
INCLUDE THEY'VE ALREADY BEEN
TOLD WITH A COMPREHENSIVE
REPORT MIGHT HAVE SOME IMPACT
SO THAT PEOPLE WHO WOULD BE
MORE AGGRESSIVE ABOUT THE
IMPROVEMENT THAT THEY WOULD
MAKE IN THEIR HOME AFTER THEY
BUY IT AND THAT WOULD BE A GOOD
THING.
BUT THE VAST MAJORITY IN MY
PERSONAL OPINION IN MY
PROFESSIONAL OPINION, THE VAST
MAJORITY OF THE ITEMS THAT
WOULD ACTUALLY GET DONE ARE
BEING IDENTIFIED.
I WOULD MUCH RATHER THIS AMOUNT
OF MONEY FROM OUR CLIMATE
ACTION ESSENTIAL IN ACHIEVING
REDUCTIONS IN CARBON RATHER
THAN PRODUCING WHAT THAT MAY
NOT BE ADDING ANY VALUE OR THE
VALUE MAY BE RATHER LOW
COMPARED TO WHAT VALUES ARE OUT
THERE.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE
PEOPLE WHO
ARE FIRST IN THEIR HOME BUT
WOULD BE A GOOD BENEFICIARY
OF OUR CLIMATE ACKNOWLEDGMENT
OR ENERGY TO THEIR HOME.
GET THE MONEY TO ACTUALLY MAKE
THOSE IMPROVEMENTS INSTEAD
OF THE MONEY GOING TO
INFECTION'S AIRPORT BASED
SOLELY ON THE SALE OF HOMES.
I DON'T THINK IDENTIFYING AND
TARGETING THE BEST BANG FOR OUR
BUCK ON OUR LIMITED FUNDS.
OUR PLAN CLIMATE ACTION NO.
30 SECOND EQUITY AND THE TAX
MONEY AGAIN EXPECTATIONS WE
HAVE CLIMATE ACTION.
NOBODY EXPECTS TO BE ABLE TO
REDUCE THE CARBON WITH IT, NOT
JUST PRODUCE REPORTS THAT ARE
POTENTIALLY DAMAGING IN TERMS
OF WHAT WILL ACTUALLY EVEN
THOUGH THEY WOULD BE VERY
VALUABLE IN HELPING WHAT COULD
BE DONE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
SEE NO ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC HEARING THREE IN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION SEVEN
SIX ZERO TWO SECTIONS SEVEN SIX
ZERO FOUR TO SEVEN SIX ZERO SIX
SECTION SEVEN SIX ZERO EIGHT IN
SECTION SEVEN SIX ONE THREE
OF CHAPTER NINETY SIX MEDICAL
MARIJUANA FACILITIES AND
MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
OF TITLE SEVEN OF THE CODE OF
THE CITY ANN ARBOR.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
MAYOR, I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS
ONLINE FOR THIS HEARING
.
SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED PUBLIC CARRY NO
FORWARD AUDIENCE TO AMEND THE
ZONING MAP BEING PART OF FIVE
TEN POINT TWO OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ARBOR.
SIXTY ONE SOUTH STATE STREET
SOUTH TOWN REZONING ARE OUR C
TO R ONE A APART FROM FROM OUR
C TO SEE WHAT THEY ARE WITH
CONDITIONS IS THERE ANYONE IN
HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING JUST COME
ON UP
.
GOOD EVENING.
I MARGARET POSHER I'M THE
MANAGING MEMBER OF PRONENESS
PARTNERS OF ANN ARBOR LLC IN S
TOWN BY FORUM LLC BASED ON MOST
RECENT CAMPAIGN
OF MISINFORMATION THAT HAS
FOUND ITS WAY INTO THE ZONING
PROCEEDING, WE FIND IT
NECESSARY TO CLARIFY THE
ONGOING USE OF 830 THIRTY HENRY
STREET AND THE ISSUE OF AIRBNB
IN OUR DEVELOPMENTS IN A
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
HELD LATE IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN,
WE DESCRIBE THE PLANNED USE FOR
EIGHT THIRTY HENRY AS BEING FOR
QUOTE YOUNG PROFESSIONALS,
GRADUATE STUDENTS AND RECENT
GRADS.
THE MOTIVATION BEHIND THIS USE
WAS SIMPLE TO CREATE A PLACE
WHERE THIS COHORT COULD CREATE
A FOOTHOLD IN ANN ARBOR AS THEY
LAUNCHED A NEW JOB, A NEW
ENTERPRISE OR THE NEXT STAGE
OF THEIR PROFESSIONAL
EDUCATION.
A GREAT DEAL OF RESEARCH
SUPPORTED THIS STRATEGY 830
THIRTY HENRY PASSED ITS
CERTIFICATE CERTIFICATION
OF OCCUPANCY IN EARLY TWENTY
TWENTY ONE WELL COVID WAS THE
JUSTIFICATION FOR MANY
BUSINESSES TO COMPLETELY CHANGE
THEIR COURSE OF DIRECTION,
ESPECIALLY THOSE THAT REQUIRED
TO BE IN CLOSE QUARTERS.
THIS USE PLAN WAS NOT ABANDONED
HAVING MADE THE COMMITMENT AT
PLANNING MISSION TO HOUSE YOUNG
PROFESSIONALS, GRADUATE
STUDENTS AND RECENT GRADS.
THIS CONTINUE TO BE THE EIGHT
THIRTY HENRY OCCUPANCY FOCUS.
SOMETIMES THESE OCCUPANTS STAY
FOR WEEKS AND MANY TIMES THEY
STAY FOR MONTHS.
THIS COMMITMENT INCLUDED
DIGITAL TOOLS TO ATTRACT AND
INVITE INDIVIDUALS AND STARTUPS
THAT FIT THE PLAN AT THE END
OF THE DAY WE REALIZED BECAUSE
OF CONSUMER HABITS THAT THE
BEST METHOD TO ATTRACT
OCCUPANTS WAS THROUGH THE
AIRBNB BOOKING PLATFORM.
SIMPLY PUT, THIS PLATFORM IS
USED FOR FAR MORE THAN VACATION
RENTALS AND PEOPLE ARE USING IT
MORE AND MORE FOR LONGER TERM
RENTALS.
EIGHT THIRTY HENRY STILL USES
ITS OWN DIGITAL TOOLS TO BOOK
OCCUPANCY.
THE VAST MAJORITY OF OCCUPANTS
ARE UM U OF M GRADUATE STUDENTS
,PROFESSORS, ATHLETES AND
COACHES AS WELL AS NEWS STARTUP
TEAMS.
I DON'T BELIEVE THAT AT THE
TWENTY EIGHTEEN PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING THERE WAS A
GREAT DEAL OF CONCERN ABOUT
WHAT TECHNOLOGY WOULD BE USED
TO FILL THE UNITS.
I THINK THE CONCERN WAS WITH
THIS DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT THE
HOUSING NEEDS OF AN ARBITRATES
FOR CURRENT REGULATION.
THIS MEANS PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN
ANN ARBOR FOR THIRTY ONE DAYS
OR MORE SOME THIRTY HENRY
OCCUPANTS STAY FOR LESS THAN
THIRTY ONE DAYS AND MANY STAY
FOR FAR LONGER.
I WOULD ASK COUNCIL MEMBERS NOT
TO GET CAUGHT UP IN HOT BUTTON
TERMINOLOGY FOR EXAMPLE AIRBNB
USED BY PEOPLE WHO ARE TRYING
TO RUN COUNSEL FROM THE
OUTSIDE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE I
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
.
I WANT TO TALK ABOUT SOMETHING
VERY POSITIVE TONIGHT.
MY NAME IS HEIDI POSHER THE
SOUTHTOWN SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
SYSTEM WILL SET A BENCHMARK FOR
SUSTAINABLE BUILDING
CONSTRUCTION AND ONGOING CLEAN
ENERGY PRODUCTION AT A STATE,
REGIONAL AND NATIONAL LEVEL.
SUSTAINABLE BENEFITS OF THE
SALTUM PROJECT RELATE TO THE
BUILT ENVIRONMENT CONSTRUCTED
TO OPTIMIZE ENERGY EFFICIENCY
AND THE ACTIVATION MARKET AND
PARTICIPATION IN PROGRAMS TO
REDUCE AND PRESERVE ENERGY.
THE PROJECT INCORPORATES
RENEWABLE ONSITE ENERGY
GENERATION AS WELL AS A
MICROGRID DESIGN TO COORDINATE
ALL OF THESE COMPONENTS INTO A
HOLISTIC SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
SYSTEM.
SULTANA'S DESIGNED WITH ENERGY
WITH ENHANCED CARBON LIFECYCLE
BUILDING MATERIALS THAT INCLUDE
MASS TIMBER BUILDING ENVELOPE
THAT ACCOUNTS FOR SOLAR AND
HEATING PATTERNS ACROSS FOUR
SEASONS A GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM
THAT EXCHANGES BETWEEN THE
BUILDING AND THE SITE TO
GREATLY DIVERSIFY THE IMPACT
OF THE CLOUD AND GREEN ROOFTOPS
TO AVOID THE CREATION OF HEAT
ISLAND, THE BEDROCK OF THE
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY SYSTEM SOUTH
TOWNS MICROGRID CONTROL SYSTEM
WHICH WILL MANAGE AND REDUCE
CAMPUS LOAD AND OPTIMIZE THE
INTEGRATION THE INTEGRATION
OF THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
RESOURCES TO TARGETED
OBJECTIVES.
THIS IS SO, SO IMPORTANT
BECAUSE IT PROVIDES A LEVEL
OF CONTROL THAT ALMOST EVERY
BUILDING DOESN'T HAVE THESE
OBJECTIVES THESE TARGETED
TARGETED OBJECTIVES INCLUDE
RELIABILITY AS IN THE ABILITY
TO DISCONNECT FROM THE GRID
WHEN NECESSARY AND ALLOW THE
OCCUPANTS TO SHELTER IN PLACE
AS WELL AS NET ZERO EMISSION.
UNDER THIS DESIGN IT WILL
ACTUALLY BE POSSIBLE TO RUN THE
ENTIRE DEVELOPMENT AS A
CARBON NEGATIVE FOOTPRINT.
I REALLY WANT TO EMPHASIZE THAT
THE OBJECTIVE OF THE SOUTH TON
MICROGRID DESIGN IS ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT UPTIME AND
CARBON NEGATIVE OPERATION
COMPLETELY ELIMINATING THE
THIRTY SIX HUNDRED POUNDS
OF CO2 EMISSIONS THAT POLLUTE
OUR ENVIRONMENT WITH EVERY
MEGAWATT HOUR OF ELECTRICITY
THAT'S DELIVERED WE CAN WE CAN
DO THIS WHILE STILL PRESERVING
AN ALL ELECTRIC CAMPUS AND WAS
A CLEAR LEADER IN MUNICIPALITY
DRIVEN SUSTAINABILITY IN THE
UNITED STATES.
SOUTHTOWN PRESENTS A UNIQUE
OPPORTUNITY FOR AREA RESIDENTS
TO LIVE THEIR STRONG COMMITMENT
TO CURBING CLIMATE CHANGE IN
THE MOST MEANINGFUL WAY
POSSIBLE.
I RESPECTFULLY ASK COUNCIL TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE NOT
DISTRACTED BY OTHER ISSUES AND
WE'RE FOCUSING ON WHAT REALLY
MATTERS HERE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
MY NAME IS AN BERGRIN AND I
LIVE AT FOURTEEN TWENTY GOLDEN
IN ANN ARBOR AND NEXT TO ME IS
A BUILDING THAT USED TO BE
APARTMENT BUILDINGS.
THERE WERE EIGHT APARTMENTS
THERE THEY ARE NOW ALL SHORT
TERM RENTALS AND WE CAN SURMISE
THEN THAT SHORT TERM RENTALS
BRING IN A LOT MORE MONEY THAN
REGULAR RENTALS BUT IT'S MY
POSITION THAT THEY TAKE AWAY
FROM HOUSING THAT IS APPARENTLY
VERY MUCH NEEDED IN ANN ARBOR.
AND SO I WOULD LIKE COUNCIL TO
PAY MORE ATTENTION TO SHORT
TERM RENTALS AND MAKE MORE
HOUSING AVAILABLE AS REGULAR
RENTALS FOR PEOPLE TO LIVE IN.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
BERGER AND HER HUSBAND AND I
ALSO LIVE AT FOURTEEN TWENTY
AND NEXT DOOR TO THIS FORMER
APARTMENT BUILDING WHICH AS
OF I DON'T KNOW FOUR OR FIVE
YEARS AGO BECAME A COMPLETE
ER
AND THE AIRBNB THING IT'S OWNED
BY THE PEOPLE WHO JUST SPOKE TO
YOU AND THEY CREATED THIS
AIRBNB PLACE WITHOUT CONSULTING
WITH US, WITHOUT TELLING US
ANYTHING AND ALL OF A SUDDEN
THE PERMANENT TENANTS WERE
GONE.
MANY OF THEM WERE REAL
NEIGHBORS.
THEY STAYED USE AND NOW WE HAVE
NO NEIGHBORS.
IT'S ACTUALLY NINE YEARS.
IT'S BECAUSE THERE'S A BIG, BIG
UNIT IN THE BASEMENT.
SO THEY'RE NINE UNITS SITTING
THERE IN THE MIDDLE OF A
RESIDENTIAL AREA THAT IS ALL
AIRBNB AND IT JUST KIND
OF POPPED UP AND NOBODY SAID
ANYTHING TO PEOPLE IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD DON'T EVEN KNOW
THAT IT'S AN AIRBNB AND SO I
KNOW THAT MOST OF YOU RAN FOR
CITY COUNCIL ON AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR, MORE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND NOW
YOU'VE GOT NINE UNITS JUST
TAKEN AWAY BY THESE PEOPLE WHO
I THINK HAVE BEEN TREATED US
QUITE BADLY AND AND I SEE THEM
NOW MOVING TO DO SOMETHING ELSE
ON THE SOUTH PARK THING AND I
NOTICE THAT THERE'S THIRTY
PERCENT AIRBNB BUILT INTO THAT
PROPOSAL.
AND SO I SAY TO YOU I MEAN ALL
OF YOU RAN ON MORE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND YOU'RE DOING THINGS
THAT ARE COUNTER PRODUCTIVE TO
MORE AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND IN
OUR AND I DON'T KNOW PEOPLE
TELL ME THAT THE CITY COUNCIL
ALLOWED THESE THESE NINE AIRBNB
UNITS NEXT TO US AND I DON'T
KNOW WHETHER YOU KNOW, YOU DID
THAT ANYWAY.
IT'S PRETTY FRUSTRATING FOR US
YOU THANK YOU
.
HELLO.
MY NAME IS TIM SIRNAK.
I'M A RESIDENT OF LOWER BURNS
PARK AND AND I'M I APPLAUD PARK
AND HEIDI, THE PROPOSAL YOU PUT
FORTH I REALLY APPLAUD THE
SUSTAINABILITY ASPECTS OF IT
AND I'D LOVE TO TALK ABOUT
BIODIVERSITY IF YOU EVER GET
INTERESTED IN THAT TOPIC.
I AM VERY CONCERNED ABOUT A
REZONING OF OF A RESIDENTIAL
AREA BELOW US TO SOMETHING
CALLED THE CAMPUS BUSINESS
ZONING.
UNDERSTAND THAT THE TO ME
CAMPUS BUSINESS HAPPENS MUCH
CLOSER TO CAMPUS.
I'M AN ASSISTANT PROFESSOR.
I SUBMITTED MY 10 YEAR PACKAGE
ON FRIDAY.
I'M IN CAMPUS AND BELOW CAMPUS
.
I JUST THINK THAT LOWER BURNS
PARK I THINK OF AS RESIDENTIAL
AND I WORRY THAT BY ALLOWING
CAMPUS BUSINESS TO TO EXPAND TO
START AT THAT BOTTOM EDGE IT
WILL JUST TIP OVER EVERYTHING
TO BECOME CAMPUS BUSINESS
DISTRICT ALL THE WAY SOUTH
OF US AND PARTICULARLY ONE
ASPECT OF OF OF THE NEW ZONING
THAT I WAS CONCERNED ABOUT IS
THE OFFSETS OF ZERO.
THERE'S A ZERO NO INCHES
OF OFFSET IS REQUIRED UNDER THE
NEW ZONING.
THE HOME THAT I OWNED PRIOR TO
MOVING TO ANN ARBOR THAT I
OWNED I LIVED IN BOSTON BEFORE
COMING HERE BUT I OWNED A
PROPERTY AND LIVED IN MANHATTAN
BEFORE THEN IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD
TURTLE BAY AND IN TURTLE BAY
THERE WAS DEVELOPMENT JUST AS
MUCH CONCRETE AS POSSIBLE UP TO
THE EDGE EVERYWHERE YOU COULD
GO AND IT HAD A REALLY
DIFFERENT FEEL TO THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD AND SO I JUST I
REALLY YOU KNOW, I WORRY ABOUT
REZONING SOUTH OF IT WILL JUST
PUSH THE CAMPUS ALL THE WAY
DOWN THROUGH THE ENTIRE
NEIGHBORHOOD OF LOWER BRYNN'S
PARK.
AND SO THAT'S WHAT I CAME HERE
TO SAY.
BUT I DO APPLAUD ALL THE
SUSTAINABILITY ASPECTS THAT
YOU'VE BUILT INTO THIS PROJECT
.
THANK YOU
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING ON THE PHONE?
I'M RUNNING IN THREE, FOUR OR
FIVE.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
GO AHEAD.
HI, THIS IS KITTY CAT
RHYTHMICITY WARD.
I OBJECTED TO THIS PROPOSED
REZONING.
THIS PROPERTY IS NOT NEAR THE
CAMPUS DISTRICT AND SHOULD NOT
BE SOLD AS SUCH.
THE ENERGY ADVANTAGES TOUTED BY
THE DEVELOPER COULD BE
ACCOMPLISHED UNDER THE CURRENT
ZONING.
I MEAN IT'S ALL WONDERFUL STUFF
BUT THERE'S NO REASON TO RECALL
TO DO THOSE THINGS.
ONE OF THE REASONS DEVELOPERS
BEGAN MOVING SELLING IS SO THAT
THEY CAN PUT SHORT TERM RENTAL
SITE INTO AREAS TO DEVELOPERS
TO GET TO US TALKING ABOUT
CLOSING.
BUT IT'S TRUE AND SO WE KNOW
OUR CITY IS IN DIRE, AFFORDABLE
LONG TERM RENTAL FOR OUR
RESIDENT NOT SHORT TERM RENTAL
FROM VISITOR.
THE CURRENT ZONING WOULD NOT
ALLOW THE SHORT TERM RENTAL
BECAUSE THE CITY HAS RULED THAT
NON PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE SHORT
TERM RENTALS ARE NOT ALLOWED IN
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS.
THE DEVELOPER IS TRYING TO USE
RESULTING IN SHORT TERM RENTAL
OF WHICH THEY ALREADY OWN MANY
IN OUR CITY THEY SAY THEY WILL
LIMIT THE NUMBER OF SHORT TERM
RENTERS IN S TOWN BUT THIS
REZONING WOULD OPEN THE GATES
TO MORE SHORT TERM RENTALS IN
THE AREA.
PLEASE DO NOT APPROVE ZONING
THIS REZONING SPEAKING
OF FILMING THE CONSULTANT FOR
THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND PLAN
WOULD START ON JUNE 1ST AND YET
I HAVE HEARD NOTHING ABOUT IT
AND NOTHING ABOUT ANY PUBLIC
REGARDING A NEW COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN.
THERE IS NO CURRENT INFORMATION
ON THE CITY'S WEBSITE.
I JUST GET A COUPLE OF COUNCIL
MEMBERSHIP IN A MEETING WITH
THE TEAM WHEN I'M AT WORK.
THANK YOU.
MICHELLE HEWES, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
GO AHEAD.
YEAH, I'M REALLY EXCITED ABOUT
MORE HOUSING BEING BUILT.
I'M I'M EXCITED TO SEE THE
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PART OF IT BE
PART OF THIS.
I THINK THOUGH THAT WE SHOULD
REMEMBER THAT LARGER LARGER
HOUSING CONSTRUCTION IS
AUTOMATICALLY GOING TO BE MORE
ENERGY EFFICIENT THAN SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES JUST BECAUSE
OF THEIR NATURE.
IT'S EASIER TO HEAT AND COOL
THEM.
IT'S EASIER TO PROVIDE WATER
AND POWER TO THEM THAN THAN IT
IS TO THE SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
PER PERSON PER PERSON BASIS.
ALSO I AM NOT CONCERNED ABOUT
THE FACT THAT SOME OF THESE ARE
GOING TO BE USED FOR SHORTER
TERM RENTALS BECAUSE THE I
COULDN'T FIND THE EXACT NUMBER
BUT IT'S GOING TO BE SOMETHING
LIKE TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY
MILLION APARTMENTS ARE GOING TO
BE BUILT THERE AND IF SOME
OF THOSE YOU KNOW, EVEN IF SOME
OF THOSE WERE LEFT TOTALLY
EMPTY WITH A WITH A MIDDLE SIGN
ON THE WINDOW LIKE THAT WOULD
STILL BE MORE HOUSING THAN IS
THERE RIGHT NOW.
SO IF WE'RE WORRIED THAT
THERE'S NOT ENOUGH HOUSING IN
THERE, WELL THEN WE SHOULD LET
SOMEBODY BUILD A BIG OLD
APARTMENT BUILDING WITH LOTS
OF HOUSING IN IT AND THIS IS
WHAT THAT IS GOING TO DO.
IT IS PROJECT IS GOING TO DO IT
EVEN IF SOME OF THOSE PEOPLE
DON'T STAY IN THOSE APARTMENTS
FOR THEIR ENTIRE LIVES ARE
STILL PEOPLE AND THEY CAN STILL
BE NEIGHBORS AND SO YEAH,
ENERGY EFFICIENCY, NEIGHBORS
HOUSING IT'S GOT IT ALL APPROVE
THIS PROJECT.
THANKS.
THANK YOU
CARLA.
I WANT THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING
IN SIX FOR FOUR.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
I'VE GOT THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS CATHY BORRA.
I LIVE ONE SEVEN TO FEED THE
CHILD AND WORK FINE.
I AM GOING TO BORROW SOME WORDS
FROM A FORMER PLANNING
COMMISSIONER TO SAY THAT IN MY
OPINION REZONING THE PROPOSED
SOUTHTOWN DEVELOPMENT FROM OUR
POLICY TO SEE WHAT THEY ARE IS
EXACTLY THE OPPOSITE OF WHAT WE
WANT.
WHY IS THIS SO FAR RATHER
SIMPLE REASON OUR POLICY THE
CURRENT ZONING OF SOUTHTOWN
DOES NOT ALLOW SHORT TERM
RENTAL FOR PRINCIPAL
RESIDENTIAL AS THE PRIMARY USE.
I'LL SAY THAT SENTENCE AGAIN
OUR POLICY THE CURRENT ZONING
OF SOUTHTOWN DOES NOT ALLOW
SHORT TERM RENTAL NON PRINCIPAL
RESIDENCE AS THE PRIMARY BUT
SEE ONE A ARE DE IN FACT IS ONE
OF THE CONDITIONS OF REZONING.
THE DEVELOPER HAS OFFERED THAT
SOUTHTOWN WILL CONTAIN NO MORE
THAN THIRTY PERCENT SHORT TERM
RENTAL
.
FURTHERMORE IF SOUTHTOWN IS
RESOLVED TO SEE ONE R IT IS
LIKELY TO SET A PRECEDENT THAT
MEANS THAT THE CITY WOULD RISK
A LAWSUIT IF THEY WERE TO DENY
THE PETITIONS OF FUTURE
DEVELOPERS SEEKING A C ONE ARE
REZONING IN THIS AREA ALL
OF THIS COULD LEAD TO THE
SOUTHTOWN AREAS BECOMING A SORT
OF ER ER BED AND BREAKFAST PLAN
.
IS THIS WHAT WE WANT FOR OUR
CITY?
NO IT ISN'T.
SO I WOULD ASK CITY COUNCIL
INSTEAD OF PROTECTING THE
INTERESTS OF THOSE WHO WOULD
BRING THAT MORE SHORT TERM
RENTAL, WHY NOT PROTECT THE
INTERESTS OF PROSPECTIVE LONG
TERM RENTERS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE YANAGAWA THEIR FULL TIME
HOME?
PLEASE DENY THE PROPOSED
REZONING OF SOUTHTOWN TONIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THANK
AND I'M DISCOURAGED YOU
HAVE A COMMENT?
YEAH I IS ADAM DESKOVIC CALLING
FROM THE FOURTH WARD AND I I'VE
BEEN FOLLOWING THIS PROJECT FOR
A WHILE AND I THINK IT'S A
GREAT PROJECT.
I THINK THAT C ONE R IS AN
APPROPRIATE ZONING FOR THE
AREA.
IT'S ADJACENT TO CAMPUS THE
ATHLETIC CAMPUS AND IT'S ACROSS
THE STREET FROM BUSINESS
DISTRICT AND I THINK IT MAKES A
LOT OF SENSE FOR THIS TO BE
CONSIDERED CAMPUS ADJACENT
BUSINESS DISTRICT.
I THINK THAT THE BUILDING IS
GREAT.
I THINK ADDING TWO HUNDRED
FIFTY SOME UNITS IS GREAT AND I
THINK THAT THE I WILL BE
LOOKING FORWARD TO SEEING AND
ARBOR'S FIRST MASS TIMBER
BUILDING.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
LUIS VASQUEZ, YOU HAVE A
COMMENT WITH CITY COUNCIL MR.
MAYOR WITH VSQUEZ FROM UPPER
LOWER TOWN IN ANN ARBOR AND
JUST SPEAKING IN SUPPORT
OF THIS REZONING FOR SOUTHTOWN
TO BE IN C ONE AND A HALF
DISTRICT ZONING.
I MEAN THE CAMPUS IS LITERALLY
RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET.
I'M NOT SURE YOU WHAT THE
OPPOSITION IS SAYING AND ALSO
AS HAS BEEN POINTED OUT
DIRECTLY ACROSS A STREET FROM A
BUSINESS DISTRICT.
SO I THINK THIS BUILDING CHECKS
ALL THE BOXES AND DESERVES TO
BE OWNED AND TO SEE WHAT THEY
ARE.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR SUPPORT AND
LOOK FORWARD TO MAKING MORE
HOUSING OF ALL KINDS IN AND
HOUR.
THANK THANK YOU
.
COLOR THE PHONE NUMBER AGAIN
FIVE THREE FOUR.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT PROBABLY
I DON'T KNOW AT ALL ABOUT SOME
OF THE LEGAL ISSUES HERE.
THE GENTLEMAN WHO SPOKE IN
PERSON SAID THAT IF HOWEVER
THAT REVIEW IS NOT AN ISSUE AT
HAND HERE IT IS BACK TO THE
CAMP NOT ANYWHERE NEAR
ANYTHING.
CALL CAMP GETTING A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT YOUR CONTENT NO MATTER
WHAT THAT CAN LOOK PROMISE THAT
IN THE CAMP THAT WITH THE
APPROVAL OF THE FACT THAT THERE
WILL BE THAT NOT FOR THE
MORNING AT ALL THAT BEEN THE
LEGAL ISSUE HERE WITHOUT
CREATING THE BASE OF THE
TURMOIL IN OUR APPLICATION 150
ACROSS FROM THE DISTRICT WHERE
WE CAN LEGALLY CONTEST WITHOUT
A DOUBT THAT NOT IN THAT
PROPERTY.
SO THE BUT WITH THE IF YOU
APPROVE OR WALK PERSON YOU WANT
TO LIMIT AT 30 PERCENT SPEND
ANY OF THE NUMBER OF CRIMINAL
AND PROPERTY YOU CAN MAKE THEM
AVAILABLE FOR FREE WHEN THEY
ARE IF YOU THEM AND SITUATION
RIGHT NOW, WILL YOU STOP THAT
WE WILL GET OF THAT YOU CAN ONE
OF THE SITE AND THEN I COME
HERE BECAUSE OF THE ISSUE
OF NOW AND I NEED THE SECOND SO
THAT THEY THINK THAT YOU'RE
CREATING A LEGAL JEOPARDY FOR
YOURSELF THIS VERY
COUNTERINTUITIVE YOU'RE
ACTUALLY OPENING THE DOOR FOR
OTHER PROPERTIES BETWEEN WHAT
THE GOVERNMENT ACTUALLY
COMMITTED QUITE A LOT
OF PROBLEM SOLVING AND SHORT
TERM RENTAL.
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO
STOP IT.
IT WON'T BE GETTING ANY MORE.
WILL YOU TURN THAT DOWN?
THANK THANK YOU.
FROST SMITH, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
YES, I DO.
UM, I LOVE EVERYTHING ABOUT
THIS PROJECT.
THE ZONING IS MORE THAN
APPROPRIATE FOR THIS BUILDING.
IT'S LITERALLY ACROSS THE
STREET FROM CAMPUS TOUCH ON THE
SHORT TERM RENTAL THING.
I AM ACTUALLY IN FAVOR OF THAT
BECAUSE IT GIVES PEOPLE THAT
ARE HERE FOR A SHORT TERM AN
OPTION THAT DOESN'T MEAN BEING
OUT BY THE FREEWAYS AND HE
DIDN'T NEED TO TAKE A CAR IN OR
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
ALEX LOWE, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
GO COUNCIL PETE'S SPECIAL SET
OUT TO UH TO OUR THREE
REPUTATION AND AND TRAVIS GOING
TO HAVE TO HEAR FROM ME AGAIN.
SORRY.
I THINK THIS REZONING IS GREAT
OVERALL BUT I DO HAVE ONE
CONCERN THAT IS ABOUT OBJECTIVE
REALITY.
SOME OF THE COMMENTS THAT
OPPOSITION THAT WE'VE HEARD
TONIGHT HAVE BEEN MUTUALLY
EXCLUSIVE AND HAD CONTRADICTORY
REASONING TO EACH OTHER.
OTHERS HAVE BEEN DIRECTLY IN
CONTRADICTION TO OTHER COMMENTS
MADE BY THE SAME PEOPLE EARLIER
TONIGHT.
STILL OTHERS HAVE MADE
ASSERTIONS THAT COULD BE
DIRECTLY FALSIFIED BY VISITING
A LOCATION OR SIMPLY LOOKING ON
ANY ONLINE MAPPING TOOL.
MY PREFERENCE IS OPEN STREET
MAP THAT OTHERS ARE AVAILABLE.
SO HELLO I MY MY CONCERN HERE
ISN'T ABOUT THIS THIS REZONING
PER SAY ABOUT THE FACT THAT WE
HAVE THIS CONSTANT BARRAGE
OF FALSEHOODS THAT THAT COME
AND PEOPLE SEEM TO HAVE AD HOC
REASONING TO UH TO OPPOSE
ANYTHING THAT THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL COUNCIL INCLUDING
THAT'S HOW HOW MANY TIMES DO WE
DO WE HAVE TO SAY THIS IS FIFTY
FEET AWAY FROM CAMPUS AND THIS
IS GOING TO INCREASE THE AMOUNT
OF HOUSING IN THE AREA ETC.
ETC. ETC. IT'S QUITE FRANKLY
QUITE TIRING AT LEAST TO
SUPPORT THIS ORDINANCE.
>> I THINK IT'S GREAT.
THANK YOU
BRENDON HIMSELF.
YOU HAVE A COMMENT
BRANDON
DEMCHUK IF YOU WOULD COMMENT UH
HELLO.
YEAH UH BRANDON JEFF AGAIN FROM
WORD FOR ABOUT UH THREE
QUARTERS OF A MILE AWAY FROM
THE SITE I WILL TRY TO OBEY THE
RULES AND SPEAK JUST ABOUT THE
ZONING AND TYPE OF THE SITE
PLAN.
THE NEXT THING TO THAT QUESTION
THIS HEARING IS REALLY WHETHER
THE SUN IS APPROPRIATE FOR THE
AREA AND I THINK THE ANSWER IS
A RESOUNDING YES.
AS OTHERS HAVE MENTIONED, IT'S
DIRECTLY ACROSS THE STREET FROM
BOTH THE ATHLETIC CAMPUS AND
THE EXISTING BUSINESSES.
IT'S TOTALLY APPROPRIATE MIXED
USE ZONING.
HERE IS THE PROPOSED SITE
MANPOWER'S THROUGH.
IT'S STILL APPROPRIATE FOR THE
CITY COUNCIL AND I HOPE THAT
SOMEONE ELSE WOULD DEVELOP THE
PURSLOW INTO A
MIXED USE
DEVELOPMENT.
THE CONDITIONS TO SHARE
ANYTHING HERE WILL BE FULLY
ELECTRIC BATTERY PARK AND
HOUSED MOSTLY LUNG THAT'S UH
PLEASE PUT THIS REZONING.
THANK YOU.
ADAM GOODMAN, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
YES.
GOOD EVENING.
ADAM GOODMAN SPEAKING TO YOU
FROM THE FIFTH WARD.
FIRST OF ALL, JUST WANT TO ECHO
WHAT SEVERAL OTHER PEOPLE SAID.
I THINK THE C WHEN THEY ARE
ZONING IS TOTALLY APPROPRIATE
ON THE SITE AND I THINK IT'S
ALSO WORTH NOTING THAT THE
STAFF REPORT UNEQUIVOCALLY SAID
THE SAME THING I SO I'M GOING
TO TALK ABOUT CHURCH RENTALS
FOR A SECOND.
I THINK THIS WHOLE SORT
OF SHORT TERM RENTAL VERSUS
LONG TERM RENTAL THING IS A
FALSE DICHOTOMY.
WE HAVE DEMAND FOR BOTH IN OUR
IN OUR COMMUNITY.
THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO
COME TO ANN ARBOR FOR VERY,
VERY LAUDABLE REASONS AND THEY
NEED A PLACE TO TO STAY WHILE
THEY'RE HERE.
SOMETIMES THEY NEED JUST SPACE
TO SAY WHILE THEY ARE SEARCHING
FOR LONG TERM HOUSING BECAUSE
OUR HOUSING MARKET IS SO
PROBLEMATIC.
THE TRUTH IS THAT WE ACTUALLY
NEED ON THE SCALE OF TENS
OF THOUSANDS OF NEW HOUSING
UNITS IN OUR CITY TO MEET THE
DEMAND THAT WE HAVE.
WHILE WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
LAST I HEARD WE HAVE MAYBE A
FEW HUNDRED SHORT TERM RENTALS
SO SHORT TERM RENTALS AREN'T
HAVING A MASSIVE IMPACT ON OUR
HOUSING NEEDS BUT ALSO I'VE
LONG BEEN PRETTY FRUSTRATED BY
THE HABIT OF PUTTING ALL OF OUR
HOTELS OUT ON THE PERIPHERY
OF TOWN AND EXTREMELY CAR
DEPENDENT AREAS.
I THINK THAT PEOPLE VISITING
OUR CITY SHOULD HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO PROPERLY
EXPERIENCE OUR WALKABLE
COMMUNITY AND SOMETHING THAT
WE'RE PROUD OF RATHER THAN
FEELING OBLIGATED TO BRING EVEN
MORE CARS INTO NOW SHIFTING
GEARS A BIT, I HONESTLY I SORT
OF FEEL IT'S A LITTLE BIT
PROBLEMATIC THAT THE DEVELOPER
FELT OBLIGATED TO OFFER ALL
OF THESE ZONING CONDITIONS AT
ALL.
I MEAN MAYBE IT'S GOOD THAT
THEY DID MAYBE THAT WILL MAKE
YOUR JOB EASIER TONIGHT.
BUT WE SEEM TO BE IN THE HABIT
OF REQUIRING EVERY DEVELOPMENT
WE HAVE TO TAILOR MADE AND
HEAVILY RESTRICTED ZONING
DISTRICT EITHER IF OR BY SORT
OF TELEGRAPHING THAT WE WANT
ALL OF THESE VOLUNTARY
CONDITIONS AT WHICH IS THIS
REALLY THE DEFINITION
OF VOLUNTARY?
I DON'T KNOW.
IN ANY CASE, THIS IS NO WAY TO
ACHIEVE THE SCALE OF CHANGE
THAT OUR CITY REQUIRES TO SOLVE
ITS MOST URGENT PROBLEMS.
AGAIN, LIKE I SAID, TENS
OF THOUSANDS OF HOUSING UNITS.
SO I DON'T UNDERSTAND.
I SEE WHEN THERE IS SOMETHING
THAT WE'RE APPROACHING WITH
SUCH RELUCTANCE HERE, IT'S THE
ZONING DISTRICT THAT COULD
ALLOW THIS PROJECT AND COULD
ALLOW OTHERS LIKE IT TO BE
CONSTRUCTED BY A JUSTIN FROM
SOME FOLKS SEEMS TO BE THAT WE
NEED MORE ZONING DISTRICTS THAT
ARE MORE PERSNICKETY AND
RESTRICTIVE ABOUT WHAT 30
SECONDS WILL?
I THINK THAT'S DEAD WRONG AND I
HOPE THAT THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT WILL GET ADDRESSED IN THE
FUTURE IN THE PLANNING
EXERCISE.
BUT IN THE MEANTIME, THIS
CONDITIONAL REZONING IS WHAT'S
BEFORE YOU I THINK IT'S AN
EXCELLENT PROJECT AND I HOPE
YOU'LL APPROVE IT.
THANK YOU.
THANK MAYOR.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE FOR THIS HEARING
.
>> SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NO.
FIVE RESOLUTION APPROVE SIXTEEN
OH ONE S STATE S TOWN SITE PLAN
AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ON LINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING CALLED THE PHONE
NUMBER AND AGAIN FIVE THREE
FOUR DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
GO AHEAD.
PRIVATE PUBLIC GOOD THEN
DETRACT FROM THE CONVERSATION
SO FAR IT'S THAT CONDITIONAL
FUNDING REQUESTED IF THE TYPE
OF CONDITIONAL FUNDING THAT THE
QUESTION OF AGAIN AND WHY THEY
DO IS VERY IMPORTANT ABOUT
PRESENTING THE SITE
CLANNISHNESS CURRENT CONDITION
ONE BY ANOTHER SHORT TERM ISSUE
THEY SAID THE APPLICANT PRIVATE
INTERESTS BECAUSE THE EXISTING
STATUS, THE CURRENT ZONING HAVE
A LIMIT ON THAT CONDITION AND
TOLD BART NON PRIMARY RESIDENCE
SHORT TERM RENTAL THE
COMPARISON THAT'S BEING DONE IN
THE ANALYSIS IS INCORRECT.
YOU NEED TO BE COMPARING IT TO
WHAT THE STATUS QUO NO SHORT
TERM RENTALS THAT ARE NOT THE
PRIMARY AND I BELIEVE WHAT
THIRTY OR FORTY FEET FOR OUR
POLICY NOT COMPARING TO THE
LIMITS TO THE PROPOSED ZONING
DISTRICT THAT'S BEING REQUESTED
BUT I ACTUALLY DO NOT THAT ONE
THAT THE WHAT'S ABOUT THE
LIMITS TO WHAT THEY'RE ACTUALLY
MORE THAN WHAT'S CURRENTLY
ALLOWED IN THE CONDITIONAL
ZONING SAY I'M ON VACATION THAT
TIME EVALUATING BOTH THE
BUILDING AND THE SITE PLAN YOU
THE REPORTS ARE NOT CORRECT.
THE COMPARISON IS NOT BEING
DONE CORRECTLY AND YOU HAVE TO
REJECT THIS AND THAT WOULD
RESOLVE THOSE ISSUES IF YOU
HAVE A LEGAL REMEDY AVAILABLE
TO YOU, WE WILL GO BACK TO THE
GARNETTE THE SAME FOR COUNCIL
AGAIN WITH CONDITIONAL ZONING
IT WAS INAPPROPRIATE THAT WAS
TURNED DOWN AND CAME BACK AS A
TV AND APPROVED APPROACHED THE
TV THE EXACT SAME SITE.
SO THAT'S EXACT PLAN AND NO
SUPPLEMENTAL IF YOU PRETEND TO
BE AN APPROVED THIRTY SECONDS
BUT IT CAME UP NO PROPERLY
APPROVED I APPLIED FOR BUT I'VE
GIVEN SOME THANK YOU.
THANK YOU ALEX LOWE DO YOU HAVE
A COMMENT BACK?
THE RAMBLINGS WILL CONTINUE
UNTIL OUR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
IMPROVES.
YOU ALREADY KNOW MY OPINION ON
THIS FRANKLY I'M PLEASANTLY
SURPRISED THAT THERE WASN'T AN
AUDIBLE SIGH WHEN JACKIE SAID
MY NAME AGAIN.
I HONESTLY WOULDN'T BLAME YOU
ALTHOUGH I WOULD BE SURPRISED
IF IT CAME FROM OUR EVER SO
POLITE MANNER.
I AM MILDLY DISAPPOINTED IN THE
SEGMENT TO BE HONEST.
THE FACT THAT THIS BUILDING HAS
THE ABILITY TO BE ENERGY
NEGATIVE THANKS TO ITS ITZLER
WHILE ON THE SURFACE IT IS A
GOOD THING THAT LEAVES ME WITH
A LITTLE BIT OF A BAD TASTE IN
MY MOUTH GIVEN HOW CLOSE THIS
IS TO THE CENTER OF THE CITY TO
TO DOWNTOWN ETC. THE THIS THIS
IS THE SORT OF PLACE WHERE WE
SHOULD BE HAVING MORE DENSITY
THAN THAT, MORE THAN THAT ETC.
AND FRANKLY IT SEEMS IT SEEMS
LIKE WE DON'T HAVE THAT JUST
BECAUSE OF THE ZONING
LIMITATIONS.
BUT ON THE WHOLE THAT'S MORE
MORE SOMETHING FOR IT TO BE
ADDRESSED IN A COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN AND FOR EFFORT FOR THE
SITE PLAN AS IT IS AND AS A
CITY LAW EXISTS.
I'M IN FAVOR.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
.
BRANDON DYMCHURCH, DO YOU HAVE
A COMMENT?
BUT YES WE CAN.
ALL RIGHT.
HERE ON SO AS I PROMISED I
TRIED TO KEEP MY COMMENTS LAST
TIME JUST ON THE ZONING THIS
TIME I'M HERE TO TALK ABOUT THE
FIGHT PLAN.
AS I MENTIONED I BECAUSE OF MY
WAY I'M VERY EXCITED TO SEE A
MASS TIMBER PROJECT PROPOSAL IN
ANN ARBOR.
I HOPE YOU PUT THIS PLAN
TONIGHT TO PROVIDE MUCH NEEDED
HOUSING WHILE BEING WAY LESS
CARBON INTENSIVE.
IT MAY CARBON NEGATIVE BUT I
DON'T THINK ANY OTHER
STRUCTURES I SEE YOU CAN CLAIM
DESPITE WHAT OTHERS MAY SAY THE
STATE PLAN SHOULD NOT BE
DEVELOPED AS IF THESE
ASSERTIONS ARE CONTRARY SIMPLY
INCORRECT.
THE PROPOSED PLAN CONFORMS TO
SEE WHAT THEY ARE ENTIRELY WITH
THE MINOR VARIANCE GRANTED THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS IS IN
ORDER TO ALLOW THE DEVELOPERS
TO PROVIDE A FREE PUBLIC PLAZA
ABOUT THE SIZE OF THE LIBRARY
AND PARKING LOT WITHOUT GOING
OVER THE ALLOWABLE BUILDING
SIZE CONFORMING SITE PLAN HERE
IT WOULD JUST BE WORSE BECAUSE
WE WANT TO GET THE PLAN SPACE
THE CONDITIONAL ZONING THAT THE
PREVIOUS HEARING SIMPLY
RESTRICTS THE DEVELOPER AND ANY
FUTURE DEVELOPERS FROM HOOKING
THE BUILDING UP TO NATURAL GAS,
ADDING MORE PARKING OR USING
MORE THAN THIRTY PERCENT OF IT
FOR CAR RENTALS.
THOSE CONDITIONS ARE NOT
BAD
AND DO NOT REQUIRE AN OTHERWISE
CONFORMING PLAN TO BE DEVELOPED
AS IF IT IS A TRANSFER OUT
OF THE ORDINARY DEVELOPMENTS
THAT CAN'T BE BUILT IN AN
EXISTING ZONE.
THIS IS NOT ONE OF THOSE
DISCIPLINE.
THANK YOU CAR WITH THE PHONE
NUMBER AND IN ONE FIVE ZERO DO
YOU HAVE A COMMENT STAR SIX TWO
ON YOUR PHONE
?
GO AHEAD BROTHER.
THIS IS JIMMIE RODGERS AM AWARD
FOR RESIDENTS AND I LIVE RIGHT
AROUND THE CORNER FROM THE
PROPOSED SITE AND I AM REALLY
EXCITED ABOUT THIS HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT AS OTHERS HAVE SAID
,WE DESPERATELY DESPERATELY
NEED A LOT MORE HOUSING IN ANN
ARBOR.
THIS BRINGS THAT AND I AM VERY
EXCITED ABOUT ALL THE
SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES THAT
STARTED OUT TOGETHER.
ANY OTHER PROJECT THAT WE'VE
SEEN IN THE CITY.
SO I'M REALLY HAPPY TO SEE I
HOPE IT GETS APPROVED AND IT
WILL BE A MODEL FOR OTHER
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT.
THANKS SO MUCH.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
SEE NO IN THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NO.
SIX RESOLUTION TO VACATE PART
OF THE ALLEY IN BLOCK THREE
OF THE PLOT OF HAMILTON ROSE
AND SHEEHAN'S ADDITION TO THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WE'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS ON
LINE FOR THIS HEARING
.
>> SEE NO IN THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC NO.
SEVEN RESOLUTION TO VACATE A
PORTION OF E MOSELY STREET TWO
ASSESSORS NUMBER THIRTY.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ON LINE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
>> LARRY, I DON'T HAVE ANY
CALLERS IN LINE FOR THIS
HEARING
.
SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF AUGUST TWENTY ONE TWENTY
TWENTY THREE.
I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THESE THIS MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER QUENELLE SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S
DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES IN
FAVOR POST MINUTES ARE APPROVED
B ONE IN AUDIENCE AMEND SECTION
FIVE ONE FIVE FIVE ONE SIX AND
FIVE ONE SEVEN.
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE.
THE CODE OF THE CITY IN IOWA
TAXI ONE USES AUTO RELATED AND
TAXI ONE DEVELOPMENT USE
SPECIFIC STANDARDS TRANSIT
CORRIDOR ADDITIONAL STANDARDS
MOVE BY COUNCILOR HER BIG
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF B ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS ONE AND TO
SAY THANK YOU TO PLANNING STAFF
AND PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
SENDING US THESE AMENDMENTS
THAT WE REQUESTED LAST DECEMBER
OR JANUARY TIME FRAME AS FOLKS
WHO MAY BE LISTENING NOT AS
FAMILIAR WITH THE BACKGROUND
OF THIS WE HAVE BEEN IN THE
PROCESS OF REZONING SOME OF OUR
COMMERCIAL CORRIDORS TO SEE ONE
TICK.
ONE IS A NEW TRANSIT CORRIDOR
DISTRICT THAT WE ARE APPLYING
ALONG EXISTING TRANSIT
CORRIDORS.
THE GOAL OF IT IS TO
FACILITATE, ENCOURAGE AND
SUPPORT REDEVELOPMENT AND
INFILL DEVELOPMENT TO REALIZE
MIXED USE PROJECTS AND ACHIEVE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING, ENABLE MORE
HOUSING CHOICES MORE
SUSTAINABLE FORMS
OF DEVELOPMENT AND REDUCED
RESOURCE ENERGY NEEDS AND OUR
FIRST QUARTER TO REASON WITH
STADIUM AND EISENHOWER THEN
CAME STADIUM WHICH IS WHAT
PRECIPITATED THESE QUESTIONS
AROUND AMENDMENTS AND THEN NEXT
TO MINOR PLIMOTH AND WASHTENAW
HOPEFULLY SO SOME ALONG STADIUM
OBVIOUSLY WE HAVE THESE THIS IS
A SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT AREA WHERE
WE'VE GOT MORE RESIDENTS AND
NICE MIX OF LOCALLY OWNED
BUSINESSES.
BUT ONE OF THE THINGS THAT CAME
BECAME CLEAR DURING THAT
PROCESS AND ONE OF THE REASONS
WE ASKED FOR THESE AMENDMENTS
BECAME CLEAR THAT WE CANNOT DO
THINGS LIKE CHIESI.
ONE CURRENTLY PROHIBITS CAR
SHARE.
IT PROHIBITS CAR RENTAL.
SO IF WE'RE TRYING TO ENCOURAGE
FOLKS TO LIVE CAR LIGHT
LIFESTYLES OR CAR FREE
LIFESTYLES, IT'S NICE IF THEY
CHOOSE TO DO THAT TO BE ABLE TO
IN CLOSE PROXIMITY OF THEIR
HOMES BE ABLE TO WALK OVER AND
GO TO A CAR, SHARE AND CHECK
OUT A CAR FOR THE DAY.
BUT CURRENTLY THAT IS NOT NOT
PERMITTED SO AS FOLKS HAVE
RIGHTLY NOTED FROM CALLERS,
UNFORTUNATELY THE UDC COMBINES
CAR SALES AND RENTAL IN OUR
USES AND I THINK THAT'S
SOMETHING YOU MIGHT WANT TO
ADDRESS MOVING FORWARD BECAUSE
AT THE POINT THESE AMENDMENTS
IS NOT TO ENCOURAGE CAR
DEALERSHIPS.
UNFORTUNATELY THE AMENDMENTS
WOULD BE BY SPECIAL EXCEPTION
SO EVERYTHING WOULD GO IN FRONT
OF PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
REVIEW BEFORE IT WOULD MOVE
FORWARD.
THE OTHER PIECE THE OTHER
AMENDMENT THAT THIS BRINGS
FORWARD IS THE ABILITY TO TO
CAR REPAIR WHICH FOLKS MAY SAY
WHY WOULD YOU WANT TO HAVE CAR
REPAIR IN AN AREA WHERE WE'RE
TRYING TO DO LESS CAR CENTRIC
BECOME LESS CAR CENTRIC?
WHAT WE KNOW IS THAT SERVICES
IN CLOSE PROXIMITY TO WHERE
PEOPLE LIVE ALLOWS THEM TO WALK
AND BIKE MORE SO EVEN IN THE
CASE OF CAR REPAIR THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE CAN IF
THEY OWN A CAR THEY HAVE THE
ABILITY TO GO DROP IT OFF AND
THEN WALK BACK HOME.
SO I'LL GIVE THE EXAMPLE FOR
THE EXAMPLE OF MY FATHER, HE
LIVES IN APARTMENTS RIGHT
BEHIND STADIUM.
HE HAS CHRONIC HEALTH ISSUES,
DISABILITY AND WHEN HE NEEDS TO
GO TO GET HIS CAR REPAIRED,
HE'S GOING TO TAKE IT TO A
LOCALLY OWNED SHOP JUST DOWN
THE STREET AND INSTEAD
OF CALLING ONE OF HIS FAMILY
MEMBERS TO THEN DRIVE, GO GET
HIM AND THEN TAKE HIM BACK HOME
AND AND HAVE US GO BACK HOME
WHICH YOU CAN IMAGINE ALL THOSE
DIFFERENT CAR TRIPS.
WHAT HE'S ABLE TO DO IS WALK
HOME AND SO, YOU KNOW, EVEN IN
THIS SITUATION WHAT WE'RE DOING
IS ACTUALLY ENABLING LESS CAR
USAGE.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS AND THANK
EVERYONE WHO CALLED IN TO OFFER
US FEEDBACK ON THIS THESE
MODIFICATIONS TO SEE ONE SO
WE'VE HEARD CONCERN ABOUT
INCLUDING SALES AND WE'VE
INCLUDED SALES IN THESE
PERMITTED BY SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE A.C. ONE IN RECOGNITION
THAT AUTO REPAIR OFTEN EVEN
TYPICALLY IS ATTACHED TO RETAIL
AND IN ADDITION TO SOME OF THE
POINTS THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGGS HAS JUST MADE ABOUT
PEOPLE BEING ABLE TO LIVE
RELATIVELY INDEPENDENTLY AND
ACCESS SERVICES THAT THEY NEED
FOR THEIR AUTOMOBILES DURING
OUR TRANSITION TO FEWER AND
FEWER AUTOMOBILES I I WOULD
MENTION THAT THE CIRCULAR
ECONOMY IS PRO REPAIR AND THAT
DOES REALLY NEED TO INCLUDE
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR.
SO IT'S THIS IS PARTLY I THINK
WHAT WE'RE HAVING IS A
PHILOSOPHICAL DISCUSSION AND I
THINK FOR SOME OF US WE WOULD
LIKE TO SEE ONE TO BE A TO BE
TO BE LEADING THE WAY WITHOUT
CARS AND WITH PEDESTRIANS AND
WITH BICYCLES.
AND I LOVE THAT VISION BUT I
THINK THAT WE ARE ACTUALLY IN A
TRANSITION AND SO I THINK THAT
WE HAVE TO RECOGNIZE THAT
PEOPLE WILL BE HOPEFULLY HAVING
ONE CAR PER HOUSEHOLD, MAYBE
GIVING CARS AND HAVING CAR
SHARES.
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT WE CAN
LEGISLATE CARS OUT OF EXISTENCE
NEXT YEAR AND SO I AM OK WITH
THE THINGS THAT ARE HERE.
I ALSO THINK THAT IT'S
IMPORTANT TO SAY THAT THE
EXISTING FORM BASED STANDARDS
AND TAKE ONE MAKE IT I BELIEVE
SAFE TO PERMIT LIMITED
AUTOMOBILE RELATED USES THERE.
SO WE HAVE SETBACKS.
WE HAVE OTHER PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLY FEATURES.
WE HAVE LIMITATIONS ON SURFACE
PARKING AND SURFACE PARKING
CAN'T BE BETWEEN THE ROAD AND
THE STOREFRONT.
I THINK THOSE THINGS MEAN THAT
WE MAY GET CAR RELATED USES
THAT ARE MORE PALATABLE.
AND FINALLY I WANT TO SAY THAT
WITHOUT MAKING THIS CHANGE
THERE ARE EXISTING AUTO RELATED
USES ON THESE TAXI ONE
CORRIDORS.
OF COURSE THERE ARE BECAUSE
THEY'RE AT THE PERIPHERY SO
THAT'S WHERE AUTO RELATED USES
HAVE BEEN.
IF WE WE DO NOT MAKE THESE
AMENDMENTS TO TAKE ONE THE
EXISTING AUTO RELATED HAS
BECOME NONCONFORMING WHICH
MEANS THAT THEY ARE FROZEN THE
WAY THEY ARE BECAUSE THEY WILL
NOT BE SIGNIFICANTLY UPDATED
UNTIL THEY PASS OUT OF SERVICE.
SO WE WOULD RATHER IT IS
POSSIBLE I DON'T KNOW HOW
LIKELY BUT IT IS POSSIBLE THAT
THESE PLACES COULD BE RENOVATED
BEFORE THEY PASS OUT OF SERVICE
TO BE MORE ALIGNED WITH ONE
GOALS.
WE RULE THAT OUT IF WE RENDER
THEM ON CONFORMING.
>> NO.
CORNELL, THANK YOU AND THANK
YOU TO MY TWO COLLEAGUES WHO'VE
ALREADY SPOKE ABOUT THIS.
I TOO WHEN I READ THIS IT HURT
MY HEART TO READ CAR SALES AS
PART OF THIS BECAUSE I THINK
OUR MINDS IMMEDIATELY GO TO
EXACTLY WHAT WE DON'T WANT TO
SEE IN THIS CORRIDOR.
BUT I SEE THIS IS VERY MUCH
REFLECTIVE OF GROWING PAINS.
THIS IS SOMETHING WE WANT TO
ENCOURAGE AND WE WANT TO BE A
MODEL
FOR THE CITY IN TERMS
OF HOW THESE TRANSIT CORRIDORS
WORK.
AND I I DO THINK YOU KNOW, ONE
TO UNDERSCORE WHAT COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGG SAID THAT
CURRENTLY THE UDC DOESN'T
DISTINGUISH BETWEEN CAR SALES,
CAR SHARE, YOU KNOW, AND WE DO
WANT PEOPLE WHO WANT TO HAVE A
CAR LIGHT LIGHT LIFESTYLE TO
HAVE ACCESS TO A VEHICLE WHEN
THEY NEED IT.
THERE ARE TIMES WHEN YOU NEED
TO DRIVE AND MAKING THAT EASY
FOR PEOPLE TO DO AND TO WRAP
THEIR HEADS AROUND AND TO
REMOVE THE FEAR AROUND BEING IN
AN AREA WHERE BIKING AND
WALKING IS ENCOURAGED I THINK
IS IMPORTANT.
I THINK THAT'S AN IMPORTANT
PART OF OUR INFRASTRUCTURE AND
ACKNOWLEDGING COUNCIL MEMBER
STATE AS WELL AS WE WE HAVE TO
ACCEPT THAT AS PART OF REALITY
BUT WE ALSO NEED TO ENCOURAGE
THE BEHAVIOR THAT WE WANT AS
WELL BY BUILDING THAT
INFRASTRUCTURE.
I THINK THE SECOND PART OF IT
AROUND THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY IS
THAT ALLOWING PEOPLE TO REPAIR
THEIR CARS AND NOT HAVE TO HOP
INTO A CAR OR TAKE THREE
DIFFERENT CARS OR GET MULTIPLE
CARS TO GO AND DROP OFF THEIR
CAR.
THAT JUST SEEMS SILLY TO ME AS
WELL.
AND SO THE ABILITY FOR PEOPLE
TO MAINTAIN THEIR VEHICLES FOR
AS LONG AS POSSIBLE I THINK IS
REALLY IMPORTANT AND I THINK
IT'S A FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
AS WELL.
IF YOU CAN FIX YOUR CAR VERSUS
HAVING TO BUY A NEW ONE, I
THINK THAT'S AN IMPORTANT THING
FOR US TO THINK ABOUT WHEN WE
WHEN WE GO THROUGH THIS.
DO I THINK THAT AS IT IS STATED
RIGHT NOW IS THE END ALL BE ALL
NO.
BUT DO I THINK IT'S A STEP IN
THE RIGHT DIRECTION?
YES.
AND THAT'S WHY I'LL BE
SUPPORTING COUNTERARGUMENT.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
AND THANKS TO MY COLLEAGUES WHO
COMMENTED SO FAR AS I SAID IN
THE LAST MEETING AND ONE OF THE
PEOPLE CO-SPONSORED THE INITIAL
RESOLUTION THAT GOT THIS WORK
GOING.
SO I WANT TO DO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT AND ALSO SAY THAT I STILL
SUPPORT ADDRESSING EXISTING
NATURAL RIGHTS OF WAY EVEN
THOUGH I WON'T BE SUPPORTING
THE ADDITION OF AUTO SALES AND
RENTAL.
I SAW A PERFECT EXAMPLE MINERAL
RIGHTS OF WAY TODAY ON STADIUM
THAT DRIVE THROUGH BANK IS
GOING UP AND IT IS RIGHT UP TO
THE NARROW SIDEWALK AND IT JUST
WAS A REMINDER TO ME ONCE AGAIN
OF LIKE HOW OPPRESSIVE FEELING
THAT IS ESPECIALLY AS WE WANT
TO ALLOW OTHER MODES
OF TRANSPORTATION IN THAT
CORRIDOR.
BUT I DIGRESS.
LIKE I SAID, I WON'T BE
SUPPORTING THIS.
YOU KNOW, I THINK OUR PRIMARY
AIM IN THESE CORRIDORS IS
INCREASING MIXED USES,
ENCOURAGING HIGH DENSITY
ENCOURAGING ALTERNATIVE
TRANSPORTATION LIKE BUS WHITE
WALKING, BIKING, ET CETERA AND
DISCOURAGE AUTO DEPENDENT AND
AUTO ORIENTED USES.
I UNDERSTAND THE ARGUMENT
THAT'S BEING MADE ABOUT HAVING
THINGS IN A BOX REGION WHERE
PEOPLE LIVE.
I PERSONALLY DEPEND ON MY BIKE
TO GET AROUND MY HUSBAND HAS
THE BIKE THERE SORRY THE CAR
ALL DAY IN EAST LANSING SO WHEN
I NEED A CAR I HAVE TO RENT ONE
AND I DO HAVE TO GO TO A
DISTANCE TO GET A RENTAL BUT I
STILL THINK THAT NO ONE THERE'S
ABSOLUTELY NO REASON THAT WE
NEED AUTO SALES IN THESE
DISTRICTS.
AND NUMBER TWO, IF THE AIM IS
TO ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO TRAVEL BY
BUS WHICH I DIDN'T HEAR ANYBODY
SAY BIKE OR FOOT BY BUILDING
MORE DENSITY IN THESE CORRIDORS
AND I THINK WE NEED TO MAKE WAY
FOR THOSE USES THAT ARE MORE
CONSISTENT WITH THE SAME AND
THAT INCLUDES HOUSING, GROCERY
STORES, CAFES, WORKPLACES.
I ALSO NOTED THE RESPONSE THAT
WE GOT FROM STAFF IN A MEMO IN
RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS THAT THEY
SAID THAT THE FORM BASED
REQUIREMENTS AND THE PARKING
MAXIMUMS WOULD BE CHALLENGING
FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF NEW
AUTOMOBILE SALES AND RENTAL
FACILITIES.
BUT THE USERS COULD BE VIABLE
IF GRANTED A SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE AN EXISTING BUILDING OR
SITE AND WE KNOW THAT WE HAVE
PLENTY OF THESE SPRAWLING
SITES.
SO IF WE DON'T WANT THEM AND I
THINK THAT THE TRANSIT CORRIDOR
IS A DELIBERATE POLICY MOVE NOT
TO THEN WHY ARE WE ALLOWING
ESPECIALLY THE EXCEPTION?
I ALSO LOOKED AT OTHER TRANSIT
ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT POLICIES
IN OTHER CITIES AND IT'S PRETTY
STANDARD TO EXCLUDE THESE
USERS.
SO PERSONALLY I'M COMFORTABLE
TAKING A DOVE AND EXCLUDING
THEM HERE.
THANK FURTHER DISCUSSION.
I'M SORRY COUNCILOR.
I THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
UM, I'M ALSO NOT GOING TO BE
SUPPORTING US TONIGHT.
I WOULD HAVE BEEN COMFORTABLE
WITH THE CAR REPAIR ASPECT
BECAUSE I DO UNDERSTAND, YOU
KNOW, THE THE ARGUMENT THERE
OF BEING ABLE TO WALK OR EASILY
BIKE OR YOU KNOW, GET TO YOU
KNOW, A CAR REPAIR FACILITY
THAT THAT IS NEAR YOUR HOME AND
NOT WEIGH OUT ON THE PERIPHERY
OF THE CITY.
I COULD HAVE SUPPORTED THIS IF
WE HAD ADDRESSED THAT FIRST IN
TERMS OF SEPARATING THAT IN IN
THE UDC FROM THE CAR SALES.
BUT THE CAR SALES IS JUST A NO
GO FOR ME.
I KNOW THAT THE AMOUNT OF SPACE
THAT'S NEEDED TO TO HAVE A CAR
SALES LOT IS JUST NOT WHAT
WE'RE LOOKING FOR IN OUR
TRANSIT CORRIDOR OR DISTRICT.
>> AND SO I WON'T BE SUPPORTING
THIS FURTHER DISCUSSION
ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE STARTING
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER IHR
ELSEWHERE IGHER NOW FOR ACKMANN
NO.
COUNCILOR BRIGGS YES THAT'S
RIGHT.
CORNELL YES THAT'S MY DISH.
YES COUNCILOR HARRISON YES.
COUNCILOR SONG NO COUNCILOR
WATSON ABSENT CUSTOMER DENHA
YES I WAS MARKAZI HAD YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
MOTION CARRIES ME TO AN
ORDINANCE TO ADD CHAPTER ONE
ZERO SIX HOME ENERGY RATING
DISCLOSURE TO TITLE EIGHT
BUILDING REGULATION THE CODE OF
THE CITY THEN ARBER MOVI COUNTS
EVERY SECOND MY COUNTS MEMBER A
DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE OF B TO
COUNCIL BRITISH SO WE'VE HEARD
A LOT OF RESPONSE TO THIS
ORDINANCE AND ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT WE'VE HEARD IS THAT PEOPLE
WILL NOT USE THE REPORTS.
WELL I DID SOME READING INTO A
NUMBER OF STUDIES THAT HAVE
BEEN DONE IN THE CITIES THAT
HAVE HAD THESE FOR A WHILE
CITIES LIKE AUSTIN AND PORTLAND
IN MINNEAPOLIS AND OTHERS AT
TWENTY ONE TWENTY TWENTY ONE
STUDY OF AUSTIN WHICH HAS HAD
ITS ENERGY SCORE ORDINANCE FOR
TEN YEARS FOUND THAT NEW HOME
BUYERS ARE A MOTIVATED AUDIENCE
FOR THESE SCORES AND THEY
TYPICALLY SPEND AN ADDITIONAL
FOUR THOUSAND DOLLARS ON HOME
IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS IN THE
FIRST YEAR OF OWNERSHIP
COMPARED TO THE ANNUAL SPENDING
OF EXISTING HOMEOWNERS ON
ENERGY THAT IS IN PORTLAND.
ENERGY TRUST RECENTLY CONDUCTED
AN ANALYSIS ON HOMES WHICH HAD
RECEIVED A SCORE BETWEEN TWENTY
SEVENTEEN AND TWENTY NINETEEN
THROUGH ITS HOME SALES
DISCLOSURE PROGRAM AND OF THESE
HOMES OVER TWO THOUSAND APPLIED
FOR INCENTIVES FOR ENERGY
EFFICIENCY MEASURES AND THESE
UPGRADES RESULTED IN ALMOST ONE
MILLION KILOWATT HOURS
OF ELECTRICITY SAVINGS AND OVER
SIXTY THOUSAND THERMS IN
NATURAL GAS SAVINGS THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
SO OUR HOMEOWNERS MAY WELL USE
THESE REPORTS.
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR WILL
CERTAINLY USE THESE REPORTS
JUST AS THE AFOREMENTIONED
CITIES HAVE USED THEM TO
IDENTIFY THE KINDS OF REPAIRS
THEY SHOULD BE RECOMMENDING
THAT ALL RESIDENTS UNDERTAKE.
SUCH RECOMMENDATIONS ARE
IMPORTANT FOR CITIES LIKE OURS
WHERE THE HOUSING STOCK IS
OLDER.
THE CITY WILL ALSO USE THESE
REPORTS AS THESE OTHER CITIES
DO TO ADDRESS AND REMEDY ENERGY
INEQUITIES.
THE DATA WE WILL GATHER THROUGH
THE HOME ENERGY SCORES WILL
HELP US DETERMINE WHICH
HOUSEHOLDS HAVE GREATER NEED
AND CAN BENEFIT THE MOST FROM
CITY SPONSORED GRANTS TO MAKE
ENERGY IMPROVEMENTS.
SOME OF YOU MAY HAVE ALSO HEARD
A SUGGESTION THAT WE LINK THE
HOME ENERGY SCORE TO BUILDING
PERMITS OLD AT THE TIME OF A
RENOVATION.
I SEE THIS AS A BOTH AND
BECAUSE WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
DIFFERENT POPULATIONS PEOPLE
BUYING VERSUS PEOPLE
RENOVATING.
I ALSO AGREE THAT WE DO NEED TO
FIND A WAY TO BRING EXISTING
HOMEOWNERS INTO THIS PROGRAM
AND I'M NOT A LAWYER BUT I
WORRY THAT IT MAY NOT BE LEGAL
TO DO SO VIA THE BUILDING
PERMITS GIVEN THAT THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN DOES NOT GIVE
CITIES AUTONOMY OVER THE
BUILDING CODE , POSSIBLY WE
COULD OFFER FREE HOME ENERGY
SCORES FOR PEOPLE DOING CERTAIN
SMALLER SCALE RENOVATIONS.
AS FOR THOSE DOING LARGER SCALE
RENOVATIONS, WE EXPECT AND HOPE
THE STATE LEGISLATURE WILL PASS
ENERGY EFFICIENT UPDATES TO THE
BUILDING CODE WHICH WILL MEAN
THAT LARGER SCALE RENOVATIONS
WILL MAKE BUILDINGS
SIGNIFICANTLY MORE ENERGY
EFFICIENT.
SO I WILL BE VOTING FOR THIS
AND I AM PLEASED TO SEE IT
COMING BEFORE US AFTER THE WORK
THAT HAS GONE INTO IT.
KAUSAR 01.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
UM, SO YOU KNOW AS I PREVIOUSLY
SHARED I AM IN FULL SUPPORT
OF THE INTENDED GOALS OF HER.
UM, I AGREE THAT WE NEED TO DO
EVERYTHING THAT WE POSSIBLY CAN
IN OUR FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE
CHANGE.
MY CONCERN WITH THIS ORDINANCE
HAS ALWAYS BEEN ITS POTENTIAL
TO INCREASE RACIAL AND ECONOMIC
DISPARITIES IN THE HOME BUYING
MARKET.
AMONG THOSE WHO ARE MORE LIKELY
TO HAVE LOW ENERGY EFFICIENCY
SCORES AND WHO ARE LESS LIKELY
TO HAVE THE MONEY TO MAKE
UPGRADES, THESE INDIVIDUALS ARE
LIKELY TO BE OUR NEIGHBORS WHO
ARE LOW INCOME ON A FIXED
INCOME PEOPLE OF COLOR, PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES AND THOSE
WITH OTHER MARGINALIZED
IDENTITIES.
MY CONCERNS ARE SUPPORTED BY
THE TWO ZERO PLANETSOFT ON PAGE
FIFTY TWO OF OUR TWO ZERO PLAN
UNDER EQUITY IMPACT I'VE HEARD
I QUOTE LOWER INCOME HOMEOWNERS
MAY SUFFER LOWER SALES PRICES
FOR THEIR HOMES IF THEY HAVE
INSUFFICIENT HOMES.
RENTS MAY RISE FOR HIGHLY
EFFICIENT RENTAL UNIT WHICH MAY
FURTHER EXACERBATE RACIAL,
ECONOMIC AND INCOME DISPARITIES
IN THE COMMUNITY.
SO I BELIEVE TRACKING DATA IS
ESSENTIAL IN THE IMPLEMENTATION
OF HEARD AS IS PRIORITIZING
THOSE WITH THE HIGHEST NEED FOR
FUNDING ASSISTANCE TO MAKE
ENERGY UPGRADES.
I WILL BE VOTING YES ON THIS
TONIGHT BUT I ALSO WILL BE
WORKING WITH OUTSIDE MY COUNCIL
COLLEAGUES TO CREATE A
RESOLUTION THAT I HOPE WILL
ADDRESS PROACTIVE TARGETING
OF RESIDENTS WHO ARE LOW INCOME
NOW BEFORE IT GOES INTO PLACE
ENCOURAGING THEM TO UNDERGO
FREE ASSESSMENT AND PROVIDING
THEM WITH THE FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE THAT IS AVAILABLE TO
THEM PRIORITIZING THESE TYPE
OF HOMEOWNERS IN GENERAL ONCE
THE PROGRAM LAUNCHES
AND THAT A
PLAN BE DEVELOPED FOR
COMPREHENSIVE MONITORING
EVALUATION
AND TRACKING OF LOW
ENERGY EFFICIENCY SCORES WHERE
THEY ARE OVERREPRESENTED.
THE DEMOGRAPHICS OF THESE AREAS
AND OTHER CRITERIA WHICH WILL
HELP US ASSESS POTENTIAL
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES AND TO
HOPEFULLY CREATE A REPORTING
MECHANISM BACK TO COUNCIL AND
TO THE PUBLIC ON THE IMPACT
OF HER THINKING.
SORRY.
>> IT'S A LOT FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL OVER A DENHA
THANKS.
I JUST WANT TO ADD WE HAVE
SPOKEN QUITE A BIT ABOUT THIS
SO I DON'T WANT TO TAKE TOO
MUCH TIME BUT I DO WANT TO
AGAIN ACKNOWLEDGE THE AMOUNT
OF WORK THAT'S GONE INTO THIS
AND I THOUGHT THAT'S GONE INTO
THIS NOT ONLY FROM THIS TABLE I
I LOOK FORWARD TO WORKING WITH
WITH MY COLLEAGUE FROM THE
THIRD WARD FUTURE RESOLUTION
BUT ALSO FROM FROM STAFF HAS
BEEN REALLY ENGAGED IN PULLING
IN COMMUNITY STAKEHOLDERS TO TO
INFORM THIS ORDINANCE AND TO
MAKE CHANGES TO IT THROUGHOUT
THE PROCESS.
I DO THINK THAT THAT PROCESS
WHILE LONG ULTIMATELY IMPROVED
THE ORDINANCE THAT I HOPE WE
WILL ADOPT TONIGHT, I TOO JUST
WANT TO ECHO THAT I THINK
HAVING THIS INFORMATION AS A
HOME BUYER IS IMPORTANT.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT YOU KNOW,
WHEN I PURCHASED MY HOME I DID
AN INSPECTION AND I GOT A LIST
OF THINGS THAT THAT WHILE
PASSING THE INSPECTION WOULD
LIKELY NEED TO BE UPGRADED IN
THE NEXT COUPLE OF YEARS OR
THINGS THAT COULD BE IMPROVED
TO NOW BUT DIDN'T NECESSARILY
PROVIDE A FAILED INSPECTION
HAVING THAT INFORMATION ON ON
THINGS THAT ARE SPECIFICALLY
RELATED TO TO THE TO ENERGY AND
TO TO THE SAVINGS THAT I COULD
HAVE IF I MADE MY HOME MORE
ENERGY EFFICIENT AS I LOOKED AT
THE LIST OF OF THINGS THAT
COULD BE UPDATED IN MY EXISTING
INSPECTION, I LOOKED AT THE
WAYS THAT OVER THE NEXT FEW
YEARS I COULD CONTINUE TO
IMPLEMENT SOME OF THOSE.
I PRIORITIZED SOME OF THEM AS
THINGS THAT I KNEW WOULD BE
COMING AND KNOWING THAT THERE
ARE THINGS THAT COULD IMPACT
HOW ENERGY EFFICIENT MY HOME
IS, HOW THAT MAY REDUCE MY
ELECTRIC BILL THAT MAY MAY HELP
TO TO CONTRIBUTE TO OUR OUR
GOALS OF BECOMING
CARBON NEUTRAL WOULD WOULD RANK
ON MY LIST OF PRIORITIES.
AND SO HAVING THAT INFORMATION
AVAILABLE FOR THE HOME BUYER I
DO THINK IS IMPORTANT.
AND SO FOR THAT REASON I'M
GOING TO BE SUPPORTING THIS TO
MAKE FURTHER DISCUSSION
CONTROVERSAL I WAS REFLECTING
ON THE COMMENT THAT THESE
REPORTS WOULD NOT BE USED OR
WHAT IS THE USE OF THEM IF IT'S
NOT IF IT'S NOT USEFUL IN THE
PROCESS OF SELLING OR BUYING
AND I WAS THINKING ABOUT HOW
HOME BUYERS IN THE CITY HAVE
BEGUN TO ASK IF THEIR HOME HAS
RACIAL COVENANTS.
SO WHAT'S THE VALUE OF WHAT
DOES THAT WHAT KIND OF VALUE
DOES THAT PRESENT IN YOUR IN
THE HOME BUYING AND SELLING
PROCESS?
WHAT KIND OF HOME BUYERS ARE
ASKING ABOUT THE HISTORY
OF THEIR HOMES AND THEN HOW
DOES THAT REFLECT ON OUR
COMMUNITY VALUES?
SO I DON'T THINK IT'S A DOLLARS
AND CENTS TRANSACTION
NECESSARILY WHEN WE TALK ABOUT
THESE THINGS WHEN WE TALK ABOUT
ENERGY AND CONSERVATION AND OUR
ENVIRONMENT AND OUR ENVIRONMENT
COMMITMENTS MUCH LIKE HOW I
WOULD HOPE THAT WE CAN SUSTAIN
OUR COMMITMENTS TO BEING OPEN
AND HONEST ABOUT THE HISTORIES
OF OUR NEIGHBORHOODS AND MAYBE
THIS IS A PRACTICE THAT CAN
COME INTO USE AND INTO DEMAND
AS WE LEARN ABOUT WHO ARE HOW
OUR NEIGHBORS COME TO BE OUR
NEIGHBORS AND WHAT KIND
OF VALUES THEY PRESENT IN THIS
PROCESS, I WOULD HOPE THAT OUR
FUTURE HOMEBUYERS WOULD ASK ARE
THERE RACIAL COVENANTS IN MY
HOME?
WHAT IS THAT HISTORY?
HOW DO I REMOVE THEM AS WE KNOW
THERE'S A PROJECT CURRENTLY
UNDERWAY TO REMOVE THEM IN
CERTAIN NEIGHBORHOODS BUT
SOMETIMES PEOPLE DON'T KNOW
THAT THESE EXIST AND I'M HOPING
THAT WHAT WE'RE OFFERING FOR
FREE THROUGH THE CITY GOD HELP
US ON CAPACITY CAN HELP
MOTIVATE MAYBE SIMILAR
THINKING.
I'M IN SUPPORT OF FURTHER
DISCUSSION FOR MY PART I'M
EXCITED THAT THIS IS MOVING
FORWARD.
I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE VERY
USEFUL FOR SELLERS TO KNOW WHAT
THEY'RE SELLING FOR BUYERS TO
KNOW WHAT THEY'RE BUYING IT FOR
THE CITY TO KNOW WHERE WE CAN
BE MOST HELPFUL AS FOLKS KNOW
AND AS FOLKS HAS HEARD AND I
THINK AS WILL BE EXPANDED
FURTHER BY SUBSEQUENT
RESOLUTION AND AND BOTH COUNCIL
AND STAFF ACTION WE HAVE
RESOURCES AND TO HELP
ACCOMPLISH A JUST AND EQUITABLE
TRANSITION TO A CARBON NEUTRAL
COMMUNITY BY THE YEAR 2030 AND
WE CAN'T ACCOMPLISH THAT
WITHOUT PROVIDING DIRECT
ASSISTANCE BOTH IN TERMS
OF DOLLARS AND GUIDANCE TO TO
RESIDENTS.
AND WE ARE GOING TO I BELIEVE
UNDER CURRENT CURRENT POLICY
AND FUTURE POLICY MAKE SURE
THAT WE'RE DOING THOSE THINGS
WHERE THEY ARE MOST EFFECTIVE,
WHERE THEY BOTH ENERGY
EFFICIENCY GOALS AND OUR EQUITY
GOALS.
THESE THINGS ARE CRUCIAL TO THE
ENTERPRISE.
WE WILL HAVE RESOURCES THROUGH
OUR COMMUNITY CLIMATE ACTION
MILLAGE TO AFFECT CITY REBATES
.
THEY THOSE WILL BE LAYERED
OF COURSE UPON BIDEN HARRIS
INFLATION REDUCTION ACT
EXISTING REBATES WHICH WE WILL
HELP RESIDENTS UNDERSTAND AND
BY EXTENSION ACCESS INFORMATION
OF THIS KIND I BELIEVE WILL BE
A NET POSITIVE.
BUT I AM DOUBLY EXCITED TO TO
KNOW THAT WE ARE GOING TO BE
TAKING AND I'M ASSUMING THIS
RESOLUTION COME TO US AND BE
PASSED IS EXPECTED ULTIMATELY
TO BE THAT WE WILL HAVE A HIGH
DEGREE OF INTENTIONAL
INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO
AFFECT AND SO THAT WE CAN
IMPROVE AND ITERATE FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
IT IS APPROVED B THREE AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION SEVEN
SIX ZERO TWO SEVEN SIX ZERO
FOUR TO SEVEN ZERO SIX SECTION
SEVEN SIX ZERO EIGHT AND SEVEN
SEVEN SIX ONE THREE OF CHAPTER
NINETY SIX MEDICAL MARIJUANA
FACILITIES AND MARIJUANA
ESTABLISH OFFENSIVE TITLE SEVEN
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY THEN
ARE REMOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER I
ARE SECOND MY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S DISCUSSION OF B THREE
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH I DON'T
KNOW IF IT'S CONTROVERSIAL BUT
I'LL JUST BE VERY QUICK SO WE
ARE ASKED TO AMEND THE CITY
CODE FOR TWO REASONS TO ALIGN
IT WITH CHANGES IN THE STATE
LAW AND ALSO TO SIMPLIFY THE
APPLICATION PROCESS FOR
APPLICANTS AND THE
ADMINISTRATION THE
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES THEY
FACE SO WHAT HAS HAPPENED IS
THAT THE MARIJUANA REGULATORY
AGENCY AT THE STATE LEVEL HAS
ADDED A NEW CLASS A MICRO
BUSINESS WHICH ALLOWS MORE
PLANTS AND ALLOWS THE PURCHASE
OF PRODUCTS BUT DOES NOT ALLOW
PROCESSING SO CLASS A MICRO
BUSINESS FACILITIES ARE ALLOWED
TO GROW UP TO THREE HUNDRED
PLANTS WHICH IS TWICE WHAT THE
EXISTING MICRO BUSINESS THE
PREVIOUS MICRO BUSINESS WOULD
ALLOW AND THEY'RE ALLOWED TO
PURCHASE MARIJUANA INFUSED
PRODUCTS FROM A PROCESSOR SO
THE CITY WOULD BE ADDING CLASS
A MICRO BUSINESS TO ITS
EXISTING MICRO BUSINESS SO THAT
WE ALLOW EVERYTHING HERE THAT
THE STATE ALLOWS AND I THINK
THAT'S ALL YOU REALLY NEED TO
KNOW.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OR FAVOR
HOSO IT IS APPROVED BEFORE AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE ZONING
MAP BEING PART OF SECTION 5.1
FIVE THAT TURNED OUT TO
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE OF TITLE
FIVE THE CODE OF THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR SIXTEEN ZERO ONE
SOUTH STATE STREET S TOWN
REZONING FROM OUR FORESE TO R
TO SEE ONE R WITH CONDITIONS
BUILT BY COUNCIL FOR THIS
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF BEFORE
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH THANK WE
ARE ASKED TO RESIGN TEN LOTS
THE TOTAL ONE POINT SIXTY SIX
ACRES WHICH ARE LOCATED SOUTH
OF E STADIUM BOULEVARD BETWEEN
SOUTH STATE STREET AND SOUTH
INDUSTRIAL BOULEVARD IN THE
CENTRAL PART OF THE CITY.
THE REZONING WILL BE FROM OUR
FORESE TO SEE WHEN THEY ARE
WITH CONDITIONS.
THIS REZONING WILL ALLOW
CONSIDERABLE GREATER DENSITY ON
THIS PARCELS.
THE PARCELS ARE CURRENTLY
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL AND
THEY CURRENTLY PROVIDE THIRTY
EIGHT RENTAL UNITS.
REZONING WILL ALLOW
CONSTRUCTION OF TWO MULTI MULTI
STORY TOWERS FOR A MIXED USE
BUILDING TOTALING TWENTY TWO
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET THAT WILL
PROVIDE APPROXIMATELY TWO
HUNDRED AND FIFTEEN APARTMENTS
WHERE CURRENTLY THERE ARE
THIRTY EIGHT AND IT WILL
INCLUDE INCLUDE GROUND FLOOR
RETAIL OFFICE AND CHILD CARE
SPACE.
NOW I WOULD LIKE TO CLEAR UP AN
UNFORTUNATE MISUNDERSTANDING
THAT HAS RAISED SOME
UNNECESSARY FEAR ABOUT THIS
PROJECT IN THE COMMUNITY, SOME
OF WHICH WE HAVE HEARD
EXPRESSED TONIGHT COUNCIL'S
IMPROVEMENT OF SOUTHTOWN WOULD
NOT OBLIGATE US TO APPROVE
FUTURE APPLICATIONS FOR C1 A
ARE ZONING IN THE AREA
OF SOUTHTOWN OR IN ANY OTHER
AREA OF THE CITY AND IT WOULD
NOT OPEN THE GATE FOR A FLOOD
OF STARS IN THAT AREA OR IN ANY
OTHER.
THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS AN
APPLICATION THAT IS OTHERWISE
VALID FOR A ZONING CHANGE
ZONING CHANGES ARE CONSIDERED
ON A PER PETITION BASIS AND ANY
DECISION WE MAKE TONIGHT IS NOT
AUTOMATICALLY PRECEDENT SETTING
FOR OTHER PARCELS.
I AM NOT A LAWYER AND NEITHER
IS THE CALLER WHO SPOKE TO THIS
POINT BUT I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT
OUR VOTE OPENS THE CITY TO
LEGAL JEOPARDY AND I BELIEVE
THAT I HAVE BEEN WELL ADVISED
ON THIS POINT.
WE ARE NOT ASKING WE DO NOT
BELIEVE THAT A PD WOULD BE
APPROPRIATE FOR THIS PROJECT
BECAUSE PD SHOULD NOT BE USED
WHEN THERE IS AN APPROPRIATE
ZONING CATEGORY AND IN THIS
CASE THERE IS ONE SEE WHAT THEY
ARE THIS PROJECT IS ACROSS FROM
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN GOLF
COURSE IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD, THE
STADIUM AND ACROSS FROM A
BUSINESS DISTRICT.
THE DEVELOPER OFFERED FOUR
CONDITIONS ONE LIMITING THE
MAXIMUM HEIGHT FOR THE PROPERTY
TO ONE HUNDRED FEET.
SEE WHEN I ARE HAS NO LIMIT THE
MAXIMUM NUMBER OF VEHICLE
PARKING SPACES FOR RESIDENTIAL
USE ON THE PROPERTY WILL BE ONE
PER DWELLING UNIT.
THE PRINCIPAL USE OF THE
PROPERTY SHALL BE MULTIPLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL AND NO MORE
THAN THIRTY PERCENT OF THE
UNITS MAY BE SHORT TERM
RENTALS.
THE PROPERTY SHALL HAVE NO
NATURAL GAS CONNECTION EXCEPT
FOR EMERGENCY BACKUP POWER ALL
BUT THE PROVISION LIMITING
STARS WERE PART OF THE SITE
PLAN THAT THE DEVELOPERS
BROUGHT TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION SO THEY WERE VERY
HAPPY TO OFFER THESE CONDITIONS
AND THEY WERE HAPPY TO OFFER
THE ONE ABOUT STARS AS WELL.
NOW I AM GOING TO DO SOME MATH
AND THIS IS A LITTLE DANGEROUS
BUT IF THE DEVELOPMENT MAXES
OUT THE THIRTY PERCENT STEEP
STAIRS THAT WILL BE SIXTY FOUR
TO SIXTY FIVE OUT OF TWO
HUNDRED AND EIGHTEEN UNITS TWO
HUNDRED AND EIGHTEEN MINUS
SIXTY FIVE GIVES US TOTAL
RESIDENTIAL ONE FIFTY THREE.
I DON'T HAVE TOTAL CONFIDENCE
IN THAT NUMBER BUT I THINK IT'S
PRETTY CLOSE WHICH IS A NET
GAIN OF ROUGHLY ONE HUNDRED AND
FIFTEEN UNITS OVER WHAT IS
CURRENTLY ON THE SITE WHICH IS
AS I'VE SAID THREE TIMES NOW
THIRTY EIGHT OUNCE NUMBER I AM
DONE FURTHER FURTHER DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER BREAKS THANK
YOU.
CAN'T REMEMBER DISH SO SINCE
WE'RE RIGHT NOW WE'RE WE'RE WE
ARE CONSIDERING THE REZONING
AND I HAVE TO CONSIDER THAT
SEPARATE FROM THE SITE PLAN
WHICH IS OUTSTANDING AND WE'LL
TALK ABOUT THAT NEXT.
I I'M REALLY GRATEFUL FOR THE
LOCAL DEVELOPMENT TEAM THAT HAS
MADE MY DECISION REALLY EASY
TONIGHT.
QUESTIONS GOT HAVE BEEN RAISED
ALONG THROUGHOUT THIS PROCESS
AND ABOUT YOU KNOW, WILL THIS
BE WILL THIS BE HOUSING?
WILL IT BE SUSTAINABLE?
WILL IT MEET WITH OUR GOALS?
AND YOU KNOW, NOT ALL OF THAT
IS BUILT INTO SEE ONE ARE IN
FACT IT DOESN'T REQUIRE
HOUSING.
SO TO REMOVE THIRTY EIGHT UNITS
OF HOUSING AND HAVE NO
GUARANTEE OF HOUSING BEING
BUILT THERE SHOULD SOMETHING
HAPPEN AND THE SITE PLAN
DOESN'T MOVE FORWARD.
IT MAKES IT REALLY EASY FOR ME
TONIGHT TO BE ABLE TO VOTE ON
THIS BECAUSE CONDITIONS HAVE
BEEN PLACED ON THIS AND SO AS
COUNCILMAN BRITISH ALREADY READ
THEM FOR ME IT IS IT'S
WONDERFUL TO BE ABLE TO SEE
THAT THERE'S NOT THIS PROPERTY
REGARDLESS OF WHO DEVELOPED IT
WILL NOT WILL NOT HAVE NATURAL
GAS CONNECTIONS THAT THE
PRINCIPAL USE OF THE PROPERTY
SHALL BE MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL AND NO MORE THAN
THIRTY PERCENT OF THE DWELLING
UNITS MAY BE SHORT TERM RENTAL
AND THAT THERE IS A MAXIMUM
NUMBER OF VEHICLE PARKING
SPACES FOR THE RESIDENTIAL
USES.
SO ALL THIS IS VERY MUCH
ALIGNED WITH OUR GOALS.
IT MAKES IT REALLY EASY TO
APPROVE THIS REZONING TONIGHT
AND TO BE VERY EXCITED ABOUT
BEING ABLE TO APPROVE THE SITE
PLAN AS WELL.
COUNCILOR RACKMAN, THANK YOU,
MAYOR.
SO THIS IS IN THE FOURTH WARD
AND I WANTED TO THANK EVERYONE
THAT SPOKE ABOUT THIS.
SOMEONE BROUGHT UP US YOU KNOW,
I GUESS I'LL JUST SPEAK FOR
MYSELF RUNNING ON AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND YOU KNOW, I RAN ON
A PLATFORM OF PROVIDING MORE
HOUSING OF ALL TYPES.
PEOPLE WHO WORK IN AFFORDABLE
HOUSING WILL BE THE FIRST TO
TELL YOU THAT WE NEED MORE
HOUSING OF ALL TYPES TO TO MEET
OUR AFFORDABILITY CRISIS.
AND IN FACT I RECALL SEVERAL
MONTHS AGO WHEN THE TOPIC
OF THIS DEVELOPMENT CAME UP,
I'M PRETTY SURE CITY COUNCIL
GOT A LETTER OF SUPPORT FROM
AVALON WHO IS THE NEXT DOOR
NEIGHBOR TO THIS DEVELOPMENT.
SO ALL THAT IS TO SAY THAT I
THINK THIS IS IN ALIGNMENT WITH
OUR DESIRES TO PROVIDE MORE
HOUSING COUNCIL MEMBER ALREADY
WENT THROUGH THE NUMBERS WHICH
I WAS PREPARED TO SPEAK.
YOU KNOW, THIS IS A NET GAIN IN
HOUSING THE NEEDS THAT THEY
PLAN TO PROVIDE FOR IN THE
SHORTER REALM AND I THINK IT'S
PROBABLY IMPORTANT TO SPECIFY
THAT SHORT TERM RENTAL IS
DEFINED AS 30 DAYS OR LESS.
BUT WE DO HAVE A LOT OF PEOPLE
THAT COME INTO OUR COMMUNITY
THAT NEED, YOU KNOW, A LONGER
TERM BUT SHORTER THAN A YEAR
STAY PERSONALLY I HOUSED A POST
BACK IN MY HOUSE AT ONE POINT
WHEN I WAS A GRADUATE STUDENT.
WE HAVE VISITING SCHOLARS.
WE HAVE PEOPLE THAT ARE MAKING
USE OF OUR HOSPITAL.
WE HAVE PEOPLE THAT ARE HAVING
EXTENSIVE REPAIRS DONE TO THEIR
HOUSE THAT NEED A PLACE TO STAY
NOT TO SPEAK OF ALL OF THE, YOU
KNOW, STARTUP DEVELOPMENT
PEOPLE THAT I THINK THAT THESE
DEVELOPERS ARE INTERESTED IN.
SO I THINK, YOU KNOW, THIS IS A
NEED THAT NEEDS TO BE MANAGED.
I THINK THIS DEVELOPMENT IS
EXCITING.
YOU KNOW, I'M A LITTLE DISMAYED
AT SOME OF THE COMMENTS ABOUT I
THINK THAT THERE'S BEEN A LOT
OF FEAR MONGERING.
I THINK AS A RESULT YOU'RE
HEARING PEOPLE REACT TO THAT
ABOUT THIS BEING A SLIPPERY
AND I CERTAINLY UNDERSTAND THAT
PEOPLE DON'T WANT TO BE
SURROUNDED BY TRANSIENT
RESIDENTS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD
THAT THEY'VE PUT ROOTS DOWN IN.
BUT AGAIN, YOU KNOW, WE'RE
DECIDING ON THIS PURSELL THE
SET OF PARCELS THIS ISN'T A
DECISION FOR ALL OF LOWER
BYRNES PARK AND AND SO ANYWAY,
I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO
SUPPORTING THIS DISCUSSION
THAT'S SO SO I BEGAN THIS
MORNING REFLECTING REFUGEE
FAMILIES COMING TO ARE VERY
MUCH LIKE HOW MY OWN PARENTS
WERE WELCOMED IN THE SEVENTIES.
THE DIFFERENCE IS THAT MANY
WILL BE HOUSED IN HOTELS AND IF
RENTALS THAT CAN BE FOUND FOR
FAMILIES.
ANOTHER DIFFERENCE IS THAT
AMERICAN FAMILIES ARE NOT
WELCOMING THEM INTO THEIR OWN
HOMES DURING A PANDEMIC.
SO WE KNOW SOUTHTOWN MIGHT NOT
MEET REFUGEES IMMEDIATE NEEDS
UNLESS THEY EMPLOY REFUGEES AND
OTHER LOW INCOME RESIDENTS.
SO WHAT'S THE CONNECTION?
THE CONNECTION IS THAT WE
CANNOT TRULY BE A WELCOMING
COMMUNITY WITHOUT ADDRESSING
HOUSING SUPPLY ALL TYPES
OF HOUSING.
OUR HOUSING CRISIS HAS BECOME A
GAME OF MUSICAL CHAIRS.
WE DO NOT HAVE ENOUGH CHAIRS.
NO ONE MOVES WHEN THE MUSIC
PLAYS NONE UNLESS THEY ARE PAID
ABOVE MARKET RATE AND NO ONE IS
GIVING UP THEIR CHAIRS FOR
BELOW MARKET RATE OR WHAT THEY
ORIGINALLY PAID.
AND WHEN THE UNIVERSITY
SNATCHES THOSE CHAIRS WE INVITE
BUILDERS TO BUILD BENCHES NEXT
TO A STADIUM.
IT NEARLY DOUBLES OUR CITY'S
POPULATION WITH EVERY FOOTBALL
GAME NEXT TO A STADIUM HAS BEEN
IN PLACE IN SOME FORM SINCE
NINETEEN TWENTY SEVEN OR FOR
THE PAST SIX YEARS.
THANKFULLY THAT WORK WILL ALSO
BRING ADDITIONAL TAXES AS
INVESTMENTS ARE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING MILLAGE LET YOU ALSO
ADD THAT I'M EXTREMELY GRATEFUL
THAT THE SITE WILL INCLUDE
CHILD CARE FEDERAL PANDEMIC
CHILD CARE FUNDING EXPIRES ON
SEPTEMBER 30TH BY ONE
PROJECTION.
SEVENTY THOUSAND CHILD CARE
CENTERS WILL CLOSE AROUND THE
COUNTRY BUT TO KNOW THAT A
CENTER WILL BE OPENING HERE AND
SCHOOL STILL STRUGGLE TO BRING
BACK PRE PANDEMIC BEFORE AND
AFTER CARE.
THAT'S THAT'S COMMUNITY
BUILDING IN A STATE THAT IS
SUPPOSED TO BE GROWING OUR
POPULATION SO I WANT ANN ARBOR
TO BE A TESTAMENT TO WHAT'S
POSSIBLE FOR OUR STATE AND OUR
COMMUNITY A WELCOMING
COMMUNITY, A GROWING COMMUNITY,
A COMMUNITY THAT ANTICIPATES
CURRENT AND FUTURE NEEDS.
I'M IN FULL SUPPORT OF THIS
REZONING OR THE DISCUSSION
FOR
MY PART TO I'M I'M EXCITED
ABOUT THE PROSPECT OF THIS
REZONING.
I THINK IT HITS SO MANY OF THE
NOTES THAT WE'RE TRYING TO
ACCOMPLISH WITH THE COMMUNITY.
IT ENABLES US TO BUILD A
ENABLES PROPERTY OWNERS TO
BUILD MULTIFAMILY HOUSING TO
EXPAND HOUSING HOUSING CHOICE
WITHIN OUR COMMUNITY AND THE
CONDITIONS THAT ARE APPLIED IN
THE CONTEXT I THINK ALSO
ADVANCE A LARGE NUMBER OF OUR
OUR COMMUNITY SCHOOLS.
IT IS A PROJECT THAT WELL WE'LL
TALK MORE ABOUT THE SITE PLAN
BECAUSE I AGREE AS COUNCILMAN
SAID, IT'S AWESOME FURTHER
DISCUSSIONS GOING ON, FAVOR
POSED.
IT IS APPROVED BY ONE
RESOLUTION TO PROVE 16 ZERO ONE
S SIXTEEN ZERO ONE S STRAIGHT S
ST..
S TOWNSITE PLAN AND DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT GOODNESS MOVE TO NO
HIGHER SECOND BY COUNCILMAN
BRIGGS DISCUSSION OF ONE
COUNCILOR DISH.
THANK YOU.
IT IS AWESOME.
THE SITE PLAN PROPOSES TO
MULTISTORY TOWERS ON TOP OF A
SINGLE STORY PODIUM CREATING A
DEVELOPMENT WITH OVER TWO
HUNDRED THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
INCLUDED INCLUDING GROUND FLOOR
COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENT AMENITY
SPACE.
SO AND AS I MENTIONED BEFORE,
THERE WILL BE ONE AUTO PARKING
SPACE FOR EVERY FOUR APARTMENTS
WHICH IS A RATIO WE REALLY LIKE
BECAUSE IT'S NOT A HIGH RATIO
AND ONE BICYCLE BASE FOR EVERY
APARTMENT WHICH IS ANOTHER
RATIO THAT IS GREAT.
ONE OF THE SPEAKERS AT THE
PUBLIC HEARING RAISED A CONCERN
ABOUT SETBACKS.
THE BUILDING WILL HAVE FRONT
SETBACKS ALONG ITS FOUR STREETS
.
IT'S RAINING FROM RANGING FROM
FIVE TO TEN FEET AT A MINIMUM
THE FRONT SETBACKS ARE GREATER
THAN THAT IN MANY LOCATIONS
BECAUSE OF THE VARIATIONS IN
THE BUILDING DESIGN.
THE BUILDING WILL ALSO MEET AND
ARBOR'S DOWNTOWN STREET DESIGN
MANUAL GUIDELINES FOR
DESTINATION STREETS.
AND IF THAT SOUNDS ABSTRACT TO
YOU, LET ME PUT IT DIFFERENTLY
WE USE THIS DESIGNED TO ENSURE
A HOSPITABLE ENVIRONMENT FOR
PEDESTRIANS AND CYCLISTS AND
LEAVE ROOM FOR OTHER THINGS
THAT MAKE PEDESTRIANS COOL AND
HAPPY SUCH AS STREET TREES.
THIS BUILDING WILL PROVIDE AT
LEAST 19 FEET FROM THE BACK
OF THE CURB AND THE BUILDING
FACE IT ALSO AS HAS BEEN
MENTIONED HAS A PUBLIC
PEDESTRIAN PLAZA AND GREEN
ROOFS.
THE SITE PLAN PROVIDES FOR
SUSTAINABILITY IN THREE MAJOR
WAYS.
IT IS AN ALL ELECTRIC PROJECT
WHICH AS WE HEARD EARLIER WILL
BE ACHIEVED BY GEOTHERMAL AND
SOLAR.
IT USES MASS TIMBER AND CROSS
LAMINATED TIMBER SOURCED FROM
SUSTAINABLY MANAGED FORESTS.
THIS IS A BUILDING STRUCTURE
THAT CONTINUOUSLY SCORES
CONTINUOUSLY STORES CARBON AND
MAY REMOVE APPROX MATLEY
SEVENTEEN HUNDRED METRIC TONS
OF CARBON FROM THE AIR WHICH IS
EQUIVALENT TO OVER FOUR MILLION
MILES DRIVEN BY GAS POWERED
CARS.
I HOPE THAT'S RIGHT AND IF FOUR
MILLION SEEMS BIG BUT I THINK
IT'S TRUE.
YES AND IT IS IDEALLY LOCATED
FOR MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION
OR THE DISCUSSION OF COUNT THE
NUMBER OF DENHA THANK YOU.
I ALWAYS HATE TO FELLOW COUNCIL
MEMBER DESHON AND THINGS LIKE
THIS.
YOU KNOW I WAS FRANKLY JUST A
LITTLE SURPRISED TO HEAR SOME
OF THE OPPOSITION WE HEARD
TONIGHT SOME FROM FOLKS WHO
HAVE A LONG HISTORY OF OPPOSING
ADDITIONAL HOUSING IN OUR
COMMUNITY BUT WITH THIS
SPECIFIC SUGGESTION THAT WE
SHOULD OPPOSE THIS PROJECT
WHICH WILL RESULT AS WE HEARD
IN A CONSIDERABLE THAT INCREASE
IN HOUSING IN THE AREA BY
ACTUALLY SUGGESTING THAT WE
NEED MORE HOUSING.
I'M REALLY EXCITED TO SUPPORT
THIS TONIGHT BECAUSE IT DOES
EXACTLY THAT THIS THIS IS AN
ALL ELECTRIC SOLAR POWERED MASS
TIMBER BUILDING THAT AIMS TO BE
CARBON NEGATIVE.
THAT WILL BE CARBON NEGATIVE.
I'M EXCITED ABOUT THE GROUND
FLOOR COMMERCIAL THAT WILL
PROVIDE AMENITIES FOR THE
NEIGHBORS WITHIN WALKING
DISTANCE OR JUST DOWNSTAIRS
FROM WHERE YOU LIVE.
I'M EXCITED FOR THE
CONSIDERABLE ADDITIONAL HOUSING
THAT THIS TOWN WILL PROVIDE TO
OUR COMMUNITY IN THIS AREA.
I THINK THIS IS A REALLY EASY
VOTE.
I AGREE WITH WITH MY COLLEAGUES
WHO SAID THAT THIS IS EXACTLY
THE TYPE OF DEVELOPMENT AND
ENVISION THAT WE'RE LOOKING FOR
IN NEW HOUSING FOR OUR
COMMUNITY AND I'M JUST REALLY
GRATEFUL FOR THE COMMUNITY
CENTER TEAM THAT WORKED TO
BUILD THIS.
WE WE OFTEN HEAR A LOT OF SCARE
TACTICS ABOUT DEVELOPERS WHO
ARE INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITY.
BUT YOU CAN FIND THIS
DEVELOPMENT TEAM RIGHT AROUND
THE CORNER VENUE QUITE OFTEN.
AND SO I AM REALLY EXCITED FOR
THE WORK THAT'S GOING INTO
THIS.
I KNOW THAT IT'S A PROJECT THAT
HAS AS THE FUTURE OF OUR
COMMUNITY IN MIND AND I'M JUST
REALLY GRATEFUL TO HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO VOTE FOR IT.
THANKS, ALISON ANDERSON.
THERE'S A REALLY GREAT STAFF
REPORT FROM ME 16TH THAT WAS
INCLUDED IN THE AGENDA AND
OF ALL THE GRAPHICS AND STAFF
COMMENTS AND THERE THE THING
THAT REALLY STANDS OUT IS THAT
THIS PROJECT INCREASES THE
DEVELOPMENT BLOCK ABOUT THREE
TIMES OVER WHAT IS CURRENTLY
ALLOWED.
THREE IS IS THREE TIMES AS
GREAT.
I WILL TAKE THREE TIMES.
SO YOU HAD ME A DENSITY THANK
YOU SO MUCH.
SO BRIAN, THANK.
I ALSO WILL BE ENTHUSIASTICALLY
SUPPORTING US TONIGHT.
I JUST REALLY WANT TO GIVE A
KUDOS TO THE DEVELOPMENT TEAM
WHO AS COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS
MENTIONED HAVE BEEN AVAILABLE
FOR ANY QUESTIONS THAT HAVE
COME UP WHO HAVE PUT TOGETHER A
PROJECT THAT IS CHECKS EVERY
BOX I CAN THINK OF IN TERMS
OF WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO ACHIEVE
WITH OUR CLIMATE GOALS, WITH
OUR HOUSING GOALS IN THE CITY.
YES, A SMALL NUMBER OF THESE
WILL BE WHAT WE CONSIDER
SHORTER TERM RENTALS.
UM, THERE IS A NEED FOR THAT IN
OUR COMMUNITY AS WELL AND I
THINK THAT, YOU KNOW, WE WE
CAN'T DENY THAT AND I
APPRECIATE THAT THAT THEY WILL
PROVIDE FOR THIS WHILE ALSO
PROVIDING THE VAST MAJORITY AS
LONGER TERM RENTALS FOR PEOPLE
WHO LIVE IN OUR COMMUNITY.
I I APPRECIATE IT AGAIN, I JUST
WANT TO CIRCLE BACK TO THE
DEVELOPMENT AND JUST YOU KNOW,
JUST SAY THIS IS THESE ARE THE
TYPES OF DEVELOPERS WHO LIVE IN
OUR COMMUNITY WHO UM YOU KNOW,
HAVE OUR SHARE OUR OUR
COMMUNITY GOALS AND WITH
RESPECT TO CLIMATE ACTION, WITH
RESPECT TO DENSITY AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND ALL
OF THAT AND AND ARE THERE FOR
QUESTIONS YOU KNOW, IF THEY
ARISE.
I DO THINK IT'S UNFORTUNATE
THAT THAT SOME MISINFORMATION
STIRRED UP FEAR AMONG THE NEAR
NEIGHBORS AND I THINK AS FOURTH
WARD COUNCIL MEMBERS, YOU KNOW,
IT'LL BE OUR JOB TO TO TRY TO
SORT THAT OUT A LITTLE BIT.
BUT I WILL AGAIN BE
ENTHUSIASTICALLY SUPPORTING
THIS TONIGHT.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION JUST TO
ECHO ECHO MY COLLEAGUES.
YOU KNOW, I AM GRATEFUL THIS IS
COMING FORWARD.
I'M EXCITED ABOUT A WHOLE BUNCH
OF NEW NEIGHBORS DOWN ON SOUTH
STATE AND I'M GRATEFUL FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT TEAM WHO HAS
CLEARLY BEEN WATCHING WHAT
WE'RE TRYING TO DO IN THE
COMMUNITY WORKING WITH THE
COMMUNITY AND BEING OF THE
COMMUNITY, LOOKING TO BUILD
HOUSING, LOOKING TO MAKE IT
SUSTAINABLE AND LOOKING TO
BUILD A PLACE THAT BECOMES A
MICROCOMPUTER CITY WITHIN A
LARGER SPACE.
IT'S GOING TO BE I THINK A
PROJECT THAT THAT IS A CREDIT
TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND A
CREDIT TO THE CITY.
I'M DELIGHTED THAT WE'RE ABLE
TO MOVE IT FORWARD TONIGHT.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED.
IT IS APPROVED
DEED TO
RESOLUTION TO VACATE PART
OF THE ALLEY ON BLOCK THREE
OF THE PLOT OF HAMILTON ROSE
AND SHEEHAN'S ADDITION OF THIS
TO THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR MOVI
KAZMIR DISTRICT COUNCIL DENHA
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVE THE TEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTED THE
AFFIRMATIVE THAT SATISFIED THE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT DBI
THREE RESOLUTION TO VACATE A
PORTION OF E MOSELY STREET IN
ASSESSOR'S NO THIRTY MOVE BY
KAZMIR BRIGGS MY COUNTERPART
CANAL DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DEBRIE COUNCILMAN BRIGGS
SINCE THIS IS LIKELY TO BE ONE
OF THE MANY TIMES THIS KIND
OF COMES TO THE COUNCIL TABLE
TO EXPRESS AN OPINION ON IT
THIS IS MOSTLY STREET VACATION.
I'M DEFINITELY IN SUPPORT
OF BUT I DO THINK IT'S AN
OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS A LITTLE
BIT OR AT LEAST MAKE A BRIEF
COMMENT REGARDING THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN'S PLAN
TO DO NEW RESIDENTIAL HOUSING
IN THIS AREA AND PHASE ONE AND
PHASE TWO WHICH WE DEFINITELY
NEED MORE RESIDENTIAL HOUSING.
WE NEED NEW NEW HOUSING FOR
STUDENTS AND AND THEY HAVE BEEN
NEGLIGENT UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN AND ADDING MORE
HOUSING FOR STUDENTS HERE IN
THE COMMUNITY.
SO THIS IS A DEFINITE DEFINITE
NEED THAT'S BEING MET.
HOWEVER, PARTICULARLY PHASE TWO
IN WHICH PROPERTY WAS ACQUIRED
UNDER THREAT OF EMINENT DOMAIN
AND IS BEING TAKEN OFF OF THE
TAX ROLLS HAS IMPLICATIONS FOR
THE CITY.
IT HAS IMPLICATIONS FOR THE
FUTURE OF YOU KNOW, THE THE
WHAT'S GOING TO BE FLOWING INTO
OUR GENERAL FUND.
IT HAD THIS BEEN REDEVELOPED BY
THE PRIVATE SECTOR AND THIS WAS
DONE BY THE UNIVERSITY WITHOUT
COMPENSATION WITH THE CITY
ABOUT THE IMPLICATIONS OF THIS.
AND SO MOVING FORWARD I WOULD
JUST HOPE THAT WE HAVE MORE
OPEN DIALOG ABOUT WHAT THE HOW
WE TOGETHER MEET THOSE NEEDS
AND IN DEVELOPING THOSE
STRATEGIES.
SO I APPRECIATE THAT WE HAVE
REGULAR MEETINGS NOW WITH THE
UNIVERSITY TO BE ABLE TO SHARE
THOSE YOU KNOW, SHARE IDEAS AND
AND HAVE THIS DIALOG.
BUT THERE ARE IMPLICATIONS FOR
THIS THAT WE NEED TO BE AWARE
OF MOVING FORWARD FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF ALL FAVOR MOST IT
IS APPROVE THE TEN CHALAMONT
WITH TEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT THAT SET ASIDE THE
EIGHT FOOT REQUIREMENT DC ONE
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING SUMMARY
PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCE TWO
THREE TO FIVE AN AUDIENCE TO
AMEND SECTIONS FIVE THAT ONE
FIVE ONE SIX AND FIVE THAT ONE
SEVEN A CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED CODE OF TITLE FIVE THE
CODE OF THE CITY BANABA TO
EIGHT CATEGORIES OF AUTO
RELATED USES AND MODIFICATIONS
TO TRANSIT CORRIDOR DISTRICT
ADDITIONAL STANDARDS BY COUNCIL
FOR DECISION BY COUNCILOR DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE D1 KAZMIR
BRIGS
I CAN ANSWER THIS IS JUST
AUTHORIZER THE CLERK'S OFFICE
TO PUBLISH A SUMMARY OF THE
ORDINANCE BECAUSE OF THE LENGTH
SORRY I NEVER WORRIES I I URGE
WITH SUFFICIENT FREQUENCY THAT
IT IS NEVER AN FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED DC ONE RESOLUTION TO
POINT NEIL ALIKE ALIKHAN JANET
HAYES AND ROGICH GREEN TO THE
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION MUBI
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON SCANBUY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC ONE ON FAVOR POSED
IT IS APPROVED.
LET US TAKE A SHORT BREAK.
IT'S WHAT TIME IS IT.
THIRTY NINE.
LET'S COME BACK AT FORTY NINE
TO A SHORT BREAK DC TO
RESOLUTION TO ADOPT AN IMPROVED
NEIGHBORHOOD TRAFFIC CALMING
PROGRAM MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKMANN MY COUNCIL MEMBER IA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC TO
COUNCILOR AKMAN I AM ABSOLUTELY
ECSTATIC TO BRING THIS FORWARD
BECAUSE IT'S BEEN A LONG TIME
COMING SO THIS COMES TO US FROM
A RESOLUTION THAT WAS PASSED AT
THE LAST TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION MEETING IN AUGUST
AND THIS IS ONE OF THE FIRST
THINGS THAT I STARTED TO WORK
ON EARLY IN MY TERM ON COUNCIL
.
I THINK IT'S WORK THAT BEGAN
BEFORE I WAS OUT AND COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGGS WAS THE LIAISON
ON THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION.
SO THIS IS THE WORK OF THE
SUBCOMMITTEE THAT WAS TASKED
WITH LOOKING AT HOW WE MIGHT
IMPROVE WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD
TRAFFIC CALMING PROGRAM AND IT
WAS KIND OF THE PERFECT THING
FOR ME TO GET INVOLVED IN
BECAUSE I RAN ON A COMMITMENT
TO PRIORITIZE SAFE ROADS FOR
ALL.
SO WE HAVE A
LONG LIST
OF TRAFFIC COMING PROJECTS AND
REQUESTS AND I KNOW THAT
PERSONALLY MY INBOX FILLS WITH
A LOT OF COMPLAINTS ABOUT
SPEEDING AND NEIGHBORHOOD
STREETS AND OTHER DANGEROUS
BEHAVIORS NOT STOPPING AT STOP
STOP SIGNS USING STREETS CUT
THROUGH TO AVOID TRAFFIC LIGHTS
IS A RECENT ONE THAT I HEARD
ABOUT.
AND SO WE KNOW THAT THE DEMAND
FOR THIS IS HIGH.
ALSO COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
AROUND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
PROJECTS INDICATES A HIGH
DEMAND FOR SLOWING VEHICLE
SPEEDS AND IMPROVING COMFORT ON
OUR LOCAL STREETS.
BUT WHERE THE PROBLEM EXISTS IS
THAT THE PROCESS AS IT EXISTS
NOW IS PRETTY ONEROUS AND IT
DOESN'T ALLOW STAFF TO
INCORPORATE WELL-ESTABLISHED
TOOLS FOR TRAFFIC COMING IN.
ROAD CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS WERE
COMING AS NEEDED UNLESS AND
UNTIL RESIDENTS ENGAGE IN A
SEPARATE PETITION LED PROCESS.
SO ONE EXAMPLE OF THIS IS THE
GREENVIEW PROJECT.
GREENVIEW IS VERY CLOSE TO MY
HOUSE.
IT'S A STREET THAT RUNS BETWEEN
CYO CHURCH AND STADIUM SO IT'S
USED AS A CUT THROUGH.
IT'S ALSO EXTREMELY WIDE.
IT RUNS STRAIGHT.
IT HAS NO STOPS BETWEEN ONE
SIDE AND THE OTHER AND SO
SPEEDING HAS LONG BEEN A
PROBLEM ON THAT ROAD.
SO WHEN THEY WERE ENGAGING A
NEIGHBORHOOD PROCESS
OF ENGAGEMENT THEY CAME TO THE
RESIDENTS AND SAID WE KNOW THAT
THERE'S SPEEDING PROBLEM ON
HERE.
WE HAVE THESE GOALS IN OUR
TRANSPORTATION PLAN TO MAKE THE
ROADS SAFE SO WE NEED TO SLOW
THE TRAFFIC.
HOWEVER, THERE'S THIS WHOLE SET
OF TOOLS THAT WE CANNOT USE
INCLUDING SPEED HUMPS.
ANY VERTICAL ELEMENTS BASICALLY
RAISED CROSSWALKS, SPEED TABLES
BECAUSE THAT IS EXCLUSIVELY THE
DOMAIN OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD
TRAFFIC CALMING PROGRAM AND
THAT IS A SEPARATE PROCESS BY
PARTITION.
SO THIS IS AN ISSUE, YOU KNOW,
THAT DOESN'T MAKE A LOT
OF SENSE TO RESIDENTS THAT
THERE'S A WHOLE SET OF TOOLS
THAT ARE BASICALLY EFFECTIVELY
PUT OFF TO THE SIDE AND NOT
AVAILABLE EXCEPT THROUGH A
SEPARATE PROCESS.
SO THE WHOLE GOAL WITH THIS
RESOLUTION IS TO SIMPLIFY THE
APPROVAL OF PROJECTS THAT ARE
PART OF THE PETITION PROCESS.
SO WE'RE MAINTAINING THAT
PROCESS BUT WE'RE ALSO
EMPOWERING STAFF TO INCLUDE THE
FULL RANGE OF ESTABLISHED
CODING ELEMENTS THAT COME FROM
ACTO AND OTHER RESPECTED
ORGANIZATIONS FOR ANY PROJECTS
THAT SIGNIFICANTLY DISTURB THE
ROTISSERIES AND PAYING
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO ROADS
THAT ARE PART OF THE ALL AGES
ALL ABILITIES NETWORK THAT ARE
IDENTIFIED IN THE
TRANSPORTATION PLAN, ROADS THAT
ARE IN A SCHOOL WALK ZONE,
ROADS WHERE A RECORD OF CRASHES
SPEEDING A RESIDENT COMPLAINT
EXISTS OR OTHERWISE SUGGEST A
NEED FOR COMING TO ENHANCE THE
COMFORT AND SAFETY OF FOLKS IN
ON THE STREET REGARDLESS
OF PETITION STATUS COUNCIL.
SORRY I'LL STOP FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
ALCIVAR BRIGS AND SO I'M HAPPY
TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS THAT
MAY COME UP.
THIS IS COUNCIL RACKMAN
MENTIONED HAS BEEN A PROCESS
THAT'S BEEN GOING ON FOR QUITE
SOME TIME.
THE COUNCIL THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION APPROVED STARTING
THE SUBCOMMITTEE IN AUGUST
OF TWENTY TWO AND THE
COMMITTEE'S SUBCOMMITTEE
STARTED MEETING IN NOVEMBER AND
I THINK WE ANTICIPATED THAT IT
MIGHT BE A LITTLE BIT OF A
QUICKER REVIEW THAN IT TURNED
OUT TO BE.
I'D REALLY LIKE TO THANK STAFF
FOR FOR ENGAGING SO
THOUGHTFULLY WITH US ON THIS
AND HOW MANY STAFF MEMBERS
ACTUALLY PARTICIPATED IN THIS
PROCESS?
THERE WAS A LOT OF A LOT
OF BACK AND FORTH AND A LOT
OF MAKING SURE THE WE REALLY
UNDERSTOOD KIND OF WHAT THE
IMPLICATIONS MIGHT BE OF OF
MAKING CERTAIN TWEAKS, MAKING
SURE WE'RE NOT OVEREXTENDING
CERTAIN PROGRAMS TO ACHIEVE
OTHER GOALS.
SO ANYWAY, THIS IS TAKING
NEIGHBORHOOD TRAFFIC CALMING,
PUTTING IT MORE AS AN
ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTION AS IT
SHOULD BE TRAFFIC COMING
PROJECTS WILL STILL OF COURSE
THE CONTRACTS WILL STILL COME
TO COUNCIL FOR FOR FOR
CONSULATE APPROVAL JUST LIKE
JUST LIKE OTHER CONTRACTS.
BUT WHAT WE DON'T NEED TO BE
DOING IS HAVING STAFF HAVE TO
COME TO US EVERY TIME THERE'S A
TWEAK IN THE PROGRAM THAT THEY
WANT TO MAKE AND WE KNOW THAT
THIS IS A HIGHLY POPULAR
PROGRAM IN OUR CITY OF OTHER
THINGS THAT I GET CALLS ON AND
REQUEST FOR MORE OF IT IS
TRAFFIC CALMING AND I HAVE TO
TELL FOLKS TO WAIT IN A LONG
QUEUE AND SO THIS WE'RE SORT
OF ADDRESSING THAT PIECE
OF THINGS BUT WE'RE ALSO MAKING
SURE THAT WE BEGIN INTEGRATING
IT WITH THE OTHER CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS THAT WE'RE
DOING SO THAT WHEN WE GO IN WE
ASSESS THAT STREET AND IDENTIFY
WHAT ARE THE APPROPRIATE STAFF
IDENTIFIES, WHAT ARE THE
APPROPRIATE TOOLS FOR BEING
ABLE TO ADDRESS CONCERNS THAT
HAVE COME UP IN THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD BEFORE INSTEAD
OF DIRECTING THEM TO A PROGRAM
THAT'S GOING TO YOU KNOW, MAYBE
NOT BE SOMETHING THAT HAPPENS
FOR THREE YEARS OR MORE SO I
THINK THAT THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT IS VERY MUCH IN LINE WITH
THE GOALS OF OUR TRANSPORTATION
PLAN AND I APPRECIATE ALL
OF THE ALL THE FOLKS THAT
ENGAGED IN THIS PROCESS WITH US
.
>> ALSO OUR CORNELL I WAS
REALLY EXCITED TO SEE THIS ON
TONIGHT'S AGENDA.
I WILL ECHO WHAT MY COLLEAGUES
HAVE SAID ABOUT THE VOLUME
OF CORRESPONDENCE, THE MESSAGES
THAT WE RECEIVE ABOUT TRAFFIC
CALMING SOMEONE MENTIONED
EARLIER UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES
TO OF ROAD IMPROVEMENTS.
WE EXPERIENCED THAT IN WARD
FIVE WHEN A TRAFFIC PATTERN
AROUND 7TH STREET CHANGED AND
PEOPLE STARTED FLYING DOWN
WASHINGTON AND SOME OF THE
OTHER STREETS TO GET DOWN HERE
ON FASTER SINCE YOU CAN'T TURN
LEFT THERE NOW.
AND SO WE'VE SEEN A LOT OF THAT
AND I THINK BEING ABLE TO
ADDRESS IT AT THE LEVEL WHERE
WE CAN SHOW THAT WE'RE
LISTENING AND WE'RE RESPONDING
IN A WAY THAT IS NOT QUITE
FRANKLY REALLY FRUSTRATING AND
MAKE IT FEEL LIKE THE SYSTEM IS
WORKING AGAINST VERSUS FOR OUR
CITIZENS IS A REALLY IMPORTANT
STEP FORWARD.
I THINK THIS IS AN IMPORTANT
STEP FORWARD IN ZERO GOALS.
WE WANT TO INSTITUTE TRAFFIC
CALMING TO MAKE OUR ROADS SAFER
FOR ALL TYPES OF COMMUTERS,
PEDESTRIANS AND BICYCLISTS.
AND SO I WOULD LOVE TO BE ADDED
AS A CO-SPONSOR TO THIS AND I'M
REALLY EXCITED TO SUPPORT IT
TONIGHT FOR DISCUSSION.
CHARLES RACKMAN BECAUSE I
DIDN'T GET TO FIT IT INTO MY
VERY LONG COMMENTARY THE FIRST
TIME AROUND.
I ALSO WANTED TO THANK STAFF
PLACEMENTS SO MUCH TIME, YOU
KNOW AND ALSO, YOU KNOW,
MEMBERS OF THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION, MY COLLEAGUE
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S WE SPENT
SO MUCH TIME GOING BACK AND
FORTH REALLY TRYING TO GET THIS
RIGHT AND STAFF WERE, YOU KNOW,
SPENT A LOT OF TIME AND THEY
WERE ALSO WILLING TO THINK
OUTSIDE THE BOX I THINK BECAUSE
SOME OF THESE THINGS HAVE BEEN
LONG ESTABLISHED.
YOU KNOW, WE JUST DON'T USE
THOSE TOOLS OUTSIDE OF THE
TRAFFIC COMING PROGRAM.
SO I THINK THAT I JUST REALLY
APPRECIATE THEIR WILLINGNESS TO
ENGAGE ON THIS IS TO HAVE A
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
IT IS APPROVED DC FOR
RESOLUTION TO INITIATE A STATUE
TO HONOR CATHY CHANKO MOVE BY
COUNCILMAN DENHA KATSURAGI.
WE HAD ONE DISCUSSION PLEASE.
I WAS JUST SO EXCITED DC DC
THREE RESOLUTION TO IMPROVE
DATA TRANSPARENT AND
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT MOVE BY
COUNCILMAN WE'RE BEING SECOND
BY COUNCILOR.
I IN DISCUSSION PLEASE A DC
THREE COUNCILOR BRIGGS THANKS.
I WASN'T GOING TO CORRECT THE
THE AGGRESSIONS OUT AGAINST
SO
AT TO TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
KIND OF THAT THE PURPOSE AROUND
THIS AT OUR AT OUR LAST MEETING
WE WERE PRESENTED WITH THE
EQUITABLE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
REPORT WHICH MADE A NUMBER
OF RECOMMENDATIONS.
ONE OF WHICH WAS TO MAKE
IMPROVEMENTS TO OUR WEBSITE AND
MAKE IT MORE USER FRIENDLY BY
IMPROVING NAVIGATION AND
CREATING EASIER ACCESS TO
INFORMATION AND CURRENT DATA.
SO RESIDENTS CAN BETTER
UNDERSTAND CITY PROCESSES
DECISION MAKING AND BE MORE
FORM CITIZENS WHEN THEY DO
ENGAGE.
THIS RESOLUTION IS AIMED AT
MAKING IT EASIER FOR EVERYONE
TO MONITOR ANOTHER'S PROGRESS
TOWARDS ADOPTED GOALS, COMPARE
YOURSELF TO PEER CITIES AND
FIND RELEVANT DATA AND REPORTS
.
MANY CITY DEPARTMENTS ARE
CLEARLY QUITE COMMITTED TO
SHARING DATA BUT IT'S OFTEN
SCATTERED ACROSS THE WEBSITE
AND HIDDEN UNDER PROJECT SUB
PAGES OR DIFFERENT CITY
INITIATIVES AND OUR APPROACH TO
PERFORMANCE MONITORING IS
INCONSISTENT ACROSS THE
ORGANIZATION AND WE'RE OFTEN
MISSING CRITICAL INFORMATION
THAT HELPS US MONITOR PROGRESS
TOWARDS ADOPTED GOALS.
SO SINCE WE'RE IN THE PROCESS
OF REDOING OUR WEBSITE RIGHT
NOW, IT'S AN IDEAL TIME TO
ADDRESS THIS.
WE JUST RECEIVED COMMUNITY
EQUABLE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
REPORT THIS RESOLUTION DIRECTS
THE ADMINISTRATOR TO DO FOUR
THINGS ONE REVIEW MUNICIPAL
BEST PRACTICES AND PERFORMANCE
MANAGEMENT AND OPEN DATA
EVALUATE THE CITY'S CURRENT
APPROACH TO DATA ACCESS AND
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT.
DEVELOP AN EXEMPLARY
CENTRALIZED DASHBOARD THAT
PROVIDES RESIDENTS WITH AN EASY
ACCESS TO KEY PERFORMANCE
INDICATORS, COMMUNITY
INDICATORS AND OPEN DATA AND
THEN FINALLY DEVELOP AN
ACCESSIBLE AND STANDARDIZED
APPROACH TO PERFORMANCE DATA
REPORTING ACROSS ALL CITY
DEPARTMENTS TO ENHANCE THE
VISIBILITY, ACCESSIBILITY AND
MONITORING OF POLICY GOALS AND
KEY PERFORMANCE METRICS.
DEPARTMENT WEBSITE SHOULD
INCLUDE STANDARDIZED PUBLIC
DASHBOARDS AS WELL AS ACCESS TO
OPEN DATA MAPS AND MORE
DETAILED REGULARLY PUBLISHED
REPORTS AS RELEVANT SO I WILL
MAYBE SOME OF MEMBER ACKMANN
SHARE MORE THINGS LIKE I GUESS
JUST SPEAKING FOR MYSELF I
SPEND A LOT OF TIME ESPECIALLY
IN TRANSPORTATION RELATED
THINGS BECAUSE OUR
COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORTATION
PLAN IS SO NEW.
I SPENT A LOT OF TIME KIND
OF THINKING THROUGH IT AND
SEEING, YOU KNOW, WHAT GOALS
THAT WE HAVE AND TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT WHERE WE ARE TOWARDS
ESPECIALLY BECAUSE I GET A LOT
OF PEOPLE REACHING OUT TO ME
AND WE HAVE AN IMPRESSIVE ARRAY
OF DASHBOARDS AROUND
TRANSPORTATION.
WE'VE GOT A CRASH DATA
DASHBOARD.
WE'VE GOT A DIFFERENT
DASHBOARDS THAT SHOW CROSSWALK
TREATMENTS BUT THERE'S SORT
OF NO EASY WAY FOR ME AS A
COUNCIL MEMBER AND IT'S EVEN
MORE DIFFICULT FOR RESIDENTS TO
QUICKLY SEE WHAT OUR GOAL IS
AND HOW WE'RE DOING AGAINST
.
SO THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT I'M LOOKING FOR, YOU KNOW,
AND I'M HOPING THAT IT ALSO
THAT IT PROVIDES CLARITY AROUND
OUR PROGRESS SO THAT WE CAN,
YOU KNOW, MAKE TOUGH CHOICES
ABOUT PRIORITIES WHERE WE NEED
TO BUT ALSO SORT OF LESSENS
BURDEN ON STAFF QUITE FRANKLY
TO KEEP UP WITH THE AMOUNT
OF REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION
THAT WE HAVE TO PASS ALONG JUST
BECAUSE WE CAN'T EASILY ACCESS
THIS KIND OF INFORMATION.
SO I THINK THIS IS A VERY
POSITIVE STEP FORWARD.
THERE ARE OTHER MUNICIPALITIES
THAT WE KIND OF LOOKED AT AS
EXAMPLES.
SO I THINK THERE ARE SOME GOOD
EXAMPLES OUT THERE THAT WE
COULD BE TRACKING AGAINST.
BUT I BELIEVE WE MENTIONED IN
THE RESOLUTION THE DISCUSSION
PAPER POST IT IS APPROVED DC
FOR RESOLUTION TO INITIATE A
STATUE TO HONOR CATHY BECAUSE
IT'S A MOVE BY A DENHA BECAUSE
HE HAD ONE DISCUSSION PIECE
OF DC FOR DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR AND I
APPRECIATE YOUR EXCITEMENT FOR
THIS.
I WOULD SUGGEST THAT THE LAST
RESOLUTION WAS ALSO EXCITING.
OH, I WAS EXCITED NO DOUBT.
NO DOUBT.
SO I AM IMMENSELY EXCITED TO
SPONSOR THIS RESOLUTION THIS
EVENING BOTH BECAUSE OF WHAT IT
MEANS FOR OUR CITY BUT ALSO FOR
ME PERSONALLY.
ELECTED IN 1974 AS A MEMBER
OF THE HUMAN RIGHTS PARTY
BECAUSE OF CHANKO IS A
TRAILBLAZER IN HISTORY AND
MORE BROADLY A HISTORY OF OUR
CITY AND OUR NATION.
I HAVE HAD THE INCREDIBLE
PRIVILEGE OF CONNECTING WITH
CATHY SEVERAL TIMES NOW AND
WHILE SHE REMAINS AN INCREDIBLY
HUMBLE PERSON WHO HAS GENERALLY
SHIED AWAY FROM THE SPOTLIGHT
SINCE LEAVING COUNCIL, SHE
ACKNOWLEDGED HER HISTORIC
ACCOMPLISHMENT IN HER 1974
VICTORY SPEECH WHEN SHE SAID
QUOTE THIS IS THE FIRST TIME IN
THE HISTORY OF THE US THAT
SOMEONE HAS RUN OPENLY AS A GAY
PERSON AND AN ELECTED TO PUBLIC
OFFICE.
GAY LIBERATION WAS NOT A MAJOR
ISSUE IN THE CAMPAIGN.
BOTH CANDIDATES IN THIS WARD
SAID THEY SUPPORTED GAY RIGHTS.
BUT 10 YEARS AGO OR EVEN THREE
YEARS AGO LESBIANISM WOULD HAVE
MEANT AUTOMATIC DEFEAT.
THIS YEAR WE TALKED ABOUT RENT
CONTROL.
WE TALKED ABOUT THE CITY'S
BUDGET.
WE TALKED ABOUT POLICE
PRIORITIES AND WE HAD A RECORD
OF ACTION TO RUN ON MANY
PEOPLE'S ATTITUDES ABOUT
GAYNESS ARE STILL FAR FROM
HEALTHY.
BUT MY CAMPAIGN FOR SOME PEOPLE
TO AT LEAST REEXAMINE THEIR
PREJUDICES AND THEIR
STEREOTYPES.
CATHY'S ELECTION HELPED PAVE
THE WAY FOR THOUSANDS OF OPENLY
LGBTQ ELECTED OFFICIALS IN THE
DECADES THAT FOLLOWED HER
ELECTION INCLUDING MY OWN AND
THOSE OF AT LEAST ONE THOUSAND
ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY FIVE
LGBTQ PLUS OUT ELECTED
OFFICIALS CURRENTLY SERVING IN
THE UNITED STATES TODAY.
UNTIL RECENTLY WITH THE HELP
OF INCREASED VISIBILITY FROM
NATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS LIKE
VICTORY INSTITUTE AND THE HUMAN
RIGHTS CAMPAIGN, CATHY'S STORY
WAS NOT WELL KNOWN AND
HISTORICALLY WE AS A CITY HAVE
NOT DONE A VERY GOOD JOB
OF TELLING IT.
NEXT YEAR IS AN ARBOR'S
BICENTENNIAL BECAUSE IT
CONVENIENTLY COINCIDES WITH THE
FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF CATHY'S
ELECTION TO THIS COUNCIL.
IT IS A PERFECT OPPORTUNITY FOR
US TO RECTIFY THIS THIS
RESOLUTION TO BEGIN THE PROCESS
OF ERECTING A STATUE OF CATHY
HAS A CHANKO ON CITY HALL
GROUNDS IN PARTNERSHIP WITH
STATUES OF EQUALITY AND SEEKING
A COMPLEMENTARY STATE
HISTORICAL MARKER IS IN MY VIEW
AN EXCEPTIONAL AND LONG OVERDUE
WAY FOR US TO FORMALLY
RECOGNIZE CATHY'S PLACE IN
HISTORY AND TO CELEBRATE THE
IMPACT HER ELECTION HAD ON THE
BROADER LGBT CIVIL RIGHTS
MOVEMENT.
I HOPE THAT MY COLLEAGUES WILL
SUPPORT THIS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> SO TO ECHO SOME OF WHAT
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA SAID
NEARLY 50 YEARS AGO CATHY WAS A
JENKO INDEED MADE HISTORY
TOGETHER WITH THE VOTERS OF ANN
ARBOR.
SHE WAS THE FIRST OPENLY GAY
CANDIDATE TO BE ELECTED TO
OFFICE THE UNITED STATES
ELECTED BY THE PEOPLE TO
REPRESENT THE SECOND WARD IN
OUR CITY COUNCIL IN 1974 AS A
MEMBER OF THE HUMAN RIGHTS
PARTY.
HER STORY IS INCREDIBLY
POWERFUL AND IT IS AN
INSTRUCTION ENCOURAGE THOUGH
THE WORK HER WORK REMAINS
UNFINISHED.
IT IS RIGHT THAT DURING OUR
BICENTENNIAL WE HONOR HER AND
WE EXPRESS OUR RIGHTEOUS CIVIC
PRIDE IN THE FACT THAT ANN
ARBOR IS THE HOME OF HER
INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT
ACCOMPLISHMENT.
IN ADDITION TO THAT FACT WE
LOOK TO THAT THE FACT THAT WE
LOOK TO RECOGNIZE AN HISTORIC
AND BRIGHT AND HISTORIC
INDIVIDUAL.
I'M DELIGHTED THAT WE ARE
POISED TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE
INCREASE OF PUBLIC STATUARY
THAT HONORS WOMEN BY SOME
COUNTS, LESS THAN THREE PERCENT
OF PUBLIC STATUES DEPICT WOMEN.
THIS CONDITION DENIGRATES THE
EXPERIENCE AND CONTRIBUTION
OF WOMEN OVER THE GENERATIONS
AND WE AS A CULTURE NEED TO
REMEDY IT.
I LOOK FORWARD TO WORKING WITH
STATUES FOR EQUALITY, A
WELL-KNOWN ORGANIZATION
OF ARTISTS DEVOTED TO THIS
PURPOSE TO WORK WITH THEM TO
RIGHT THIS WRONG HERE IN ANN
ARBOR AND TO AFFECT A GLORIOUS
GOOD THAT IS TO SAY TO HONOR AN
ACCOMPLISHMENT OF A GREAT AND
OPERATE ON OUR BICENTENNIAL
DENHA.
>> THANK YOU.
I WOULD ALSO BE AND I KNOW THIS
WOULD BE THIS WOULD BE
IMPORTANT FOR KATHY AS WELL TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT WHILE WE ARE
TALKING ABOUT KATHY TONIGHT SHE
HERSELF WOULD RECOGNIZE JERRY
GREEK AND NANCY WEXLER WHO WERE
ELECTED FROM THE HUMAN RIGHTS
PARTY THE TERM BEFORE HER AND
WHILE THEY WERE NOT OUT WHEN
THEY RAN THEY CAME OUT DURING
THEIR SERVICE ON COUNCIL WHICH
HELPED HER TO BE OPEN ABOUT WHO
SHE WAS.
AND SO I WANT TO RECOGNIZE THEM
TONIGHT AS WELL BECAUSE THEY
ALSO HAVE AN IMPORTANT PART IN
HISTORY AND I KNOW THAT CATHY
REMAINS INCREDIBLY GRATEFUL TO
THEM FOR THE DISCUSSION.
COUNCIL MEMBER IRA, I'M
DELIGHTED TO SUPPORT THIS
TONIGHT AND I'D LIKE TO BE
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR FOR THE
DISCUSSION KAZMIR DISH.
I ALSO WOULD LIKE TO BE ADDED
IT IS ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR AND
I'M VERY GRATEFUL THAT THIS IS
COMING TO THE DESK FOR THE
DISCUSSION FAVRE POSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED DC FIVE
RESOLUTION DIRECTING THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO ADVOCATE FOR
THE MICHIGAN LEGISLATURE TO END
THE USE OF 14 C CERTIFICATES
AND SUBMINIMUM WAGE IN THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN MOVED BY
COUNCILOR CASSIANO AND SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER HARRIS
DISCUSSION PLEASE GIVE DC FIVE
.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
SO YOU KNOW THIS IS AN
APPROPRIATE RESOLUTION TO BRING
RIGHT AFTER LABOR DAY FOR THOSE
OF YOU WHO DON'T KNOW SOME
MINIMUM WAGE IS BASICALLY AN
INHUMANE LABOR PRACTICE THAT
WAS ORIGINALLY DEVELOPED IN THE
NINETEEN THIRTIES TO GIVE
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES JOBS
TO KEEP THEM OUT
OF INSTITUTIONS.
IT'S THE ABILITY FOR EMPLOYERS
TO GAIN A WAIVER FROM THE STATE
THROUGH THE DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
CALLED FOURTEEN C WAIVERS TO
LEGALLY PAY EMPLOYEES WITH
DISABILITIES LESS THAN MINIMUM
WAGE.
IT SHOULD BE NOTED THAT IT'S
NOT LEGAL TO PAY
UNDERPERFORMING EMPLOYEES UNDER
MINIMUM WAGE AND IT WAS ON THE
ASSUMPTION THAT PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES WILL PERFORM AN
ADEQUATE WORK.
THERE IS QUITE LITERALLY NO
LIMIT TO HOW LITTLE A FOURTEEN
C EMPLOYER CAN PAY AN EMPLOYEE
AS OUTLINED IN THE RESOLUTION
MORE THAN 60 PERCENT OF 14 C
EMPLOYEES MAKE LESS THAN THREE
DOLLARS AN HOUR AND TWENTY
THREE PERCENT OF THOSE
EMPLOYEES ARE PAID LESS THAN
ONE DOLLAR AN HOUR IN MICHIGAN
THERE ARE CURRENTLY SIXTEEN
EMPLOYERS WITH FOURTEEN
CERTIFICATES AND NEARLY SEVEN
HUNDRED INDIVIDUALS BEING PAID
SOME MINIMUM WAGE.
CURRENTLY IN ANN ARBOR THERE
ARE NO REGISTERED FOURTEEN
CERTIFICATE HOLDERS WHICH IS
GREAT AND THIS RESOLUTION IS
OUR STATEMENT THAT WE STRONGLY
DISCOURAGE EMPLOYERS FROM
SEEKING THESE WAIVERS IN THE
FUTURE DUE TO OUR CITY'S
COMMITMENT TO FAIR LABOR
PRACTICES AND HUMAN RIGHTS.
THIS PRACTICE ALSO HAS REAL
ECONOMIC CONSEQUENCES FOR OUR
STATE CONSIDERING PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES ALREADY
EXPERIENCED THE HIGHEST RATES
OF UNEMPLOYMENT AND POVERTY.
SO THIS RESOLUTION IS
ESSENTIALLY SEEKING OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR ADVOCATE TO THE
STATE LEGISLATURE TO DO WHAT?
TWENTY TWO OTHER STATES IN THE
NATION AS WELL AS DOZENS
OF OTHERS WILL ALSO BEGINNING
THIS PROCESS TO PHASE OUT THE
USE OF OPPORTUNITY WAIVERS BY
EXPLORING AND UTILIZING VARIOUS
PROGRAMS CALLED COMPETITIVE
INTEGRATED EMPLOYMENT PROGRAMS
ALSO KNOWN AS CIA..
SO I WELCOME ANY QUESTIONS THAT
ANYONE MIGHT HAVE AND THAT'S
IT.
I HOPE YOU SUPPORT FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON THE COUNCIL WITH
JUST WANTED TO THANK COUNCIL
MEMBER GHAZI ONE FOR HER WORK
ON THIS AND THE SUB MINIMUM
WAGE IS A DISCRIMINATORY
PRACTICE THAT DEVALUES THE WORK
OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES AND
LIMITS THEIR OPPORTUNITIES FOR
ECONOMIC SELF-SUFFICIENT
SELF-SUFFICIENCY.
I AM HAPPY TO CO-SPONSOR AND
SUPPORT THIS RESOLUTION TO HELP
TO PHASE OUT SUBMINIMUM WAGE.
THIS IS THE RIGHT THING TO DO
AND IT WILL HELP TO ENSURE THAT
ALL PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO REACH
THEIR FULL POTENTIAL.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION OR
FAVOR POSED.
IT IS APPROVED SIX RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE A PURCHASE AGREEMENT
FOR THREE ZERO TWO ONE THREE
ZERO TWO THREE MILLER ROAD FOR
PURPOSES OF ESTABLISHING AN
ELECTION CENTER AND BUILDING
STUDIO SPACE AN ELECTION CENTER
AND BUILDING STUDIO SPACE FOR
THE COMMUNITY TELEVISION
NETWORK AND THE AMOUNT OF TWO
MILLION EIGHT HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS AND TO APPROPRIATE
EIGHT HUNDRED AND TWENTY EIGHT
THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY
DOLLARS FROM THE GENERAL FUND
UNOBLIGATED FUND BALANCE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BY COUNCIL
OF YOUR SONG DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC SIX AND SUMMER DISH.
I WOULD LIKE TO ADDED EDITORS
CO-SPONSOR THERE CAN BE NOTHING
MORE IMPORTANT THAN ENSURING
THAT OUR ELECTIONS REMAIN
SECURE IN THE FACE OF REALLY
THE WAY SO MUCH HAS CHANGED NOW
THAT WE DO ABSENTEE BALLOTING
ON SUCH A SCALE AND I THINK IT
IS APPROPRIATE THAT WE INVEST
IN THAT FOR OURSELVES AND IS
SETTING AN EXAMPLE FOR OTHERS
THAT THIS IS A NEW WAY
OF PARTICIPATING IN ITS HIGHER
OVERHEAD AND WE MUST PAY IT DO
THAT SUPPORTED VESTED FURTHER
DISCUSSION CASIMIRA DENHA I
WOULD JUST ASK TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR PLEASE ANSWER
BRACKMAN JUST WANT TO ECHO WHAT
COUNCIL MEMBER JUST SAID ABOUT
THE IMPORTANCE OF ESTABLISHING
AND MAINTAINING SECURE
ELECTIONS.
I THINK IT'S MAYBE EASY TO
THINK THAT WE'RE IMMUNE FROM
THE SHENANIGANS THAT WE SAW IN
TWENTY TWENTY.
WE ARE NOT THERE SO MUCH
DENIALISM OF ELECTIONS ADDED.
ADD TO THAT THE INCREASE IN
ABSENTEE BALLOTS AND I THINK
YOU KNOW WE CAN'T STATE ENOUGH
WHICH I THINK THE MEMO DID
START
YOU KNOW, INDICATE THAT
WE JUST REALLY NEED TO PROTECT
WHAT'S THE WORD THAT I'M
LOOKING FOR?
WE NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT THESE
THAT THE WAY WE RUN OUR
ELECTIONS ARE BEYOND REPROACH
ESSENTIALLY.
AND I THINK THIS IS NEEDED TO
DO THAT.
SO I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO
SUPPORTING IT OR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MCCONNELL TO ECHO THE
SENTIMENT AROUND SHENANIGANS.
I THINK WHEN WE CONSIDER HOW WE
INCREASE CREDIBILITY AND HOW DO
WE ALONGSIDE SECURITY IT'S
REALLY IMPORTANT TO SHOW THAT
WE TAKE THIS SERIOUSLY AND THAT
WE HAVE A TOP NOTCH FACILITY
THAT IS BEYOND REPROACH.
I THINK THAT THAT CAN'T BE
UNDERSTATED AND I THINK THAT AS
A DEEP BLUE PART OF THE STATE
THAT HAS A LOT OF RED IN IT, I
CAN SEE HOW ANN ARBOR WOULD BE
AN ATTRACTIVE PLACE FOR
SHENANIGANS AND SO I WOULD LIKE
TO BE ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR.
I THINK IT'S ABSOLUTELY VITAL
THAT WE MAKE SURE THAT THE
ELECTIONS HERE IN OUR CITY ARE
MODELS FOR WHAT WE CAN DO NOT
ONLY IN TERMS FOR INCLUSIVELY
AND FAIRNESS BUT ALSO SECURITY.
IT'S IT'S NOT A VERY SEXY TOPIC
BUT I THINK IT'S ONE THAT'S
MOST NEEDED AND WE SHOULD BE
PAYING ATTENTION TO KASONGO
BRIGS
.
YEAH, I WANTED TO ALSO YOU
KNOW, INDICATE THERE'S PROBABLY
THERE'S VERY LITTLE THAT WE CAN
DO AT THIS TABLE THAT IS MORE
IMPORTANT THAN MAKING SURE THAT
WE ARE HAVING THAT OUR ELECTION
PROCESS IS FAIR AND SECURE AND
ACCESSIBLE AS WE HEARD KIND
OF AT THE BEGINNING OF THIS
MEETING, THE IMPORTANCE OF THAT
I WOULD BUT I WOULD LIKE TO
PROVIDE AN OPPORTUNITY THIS IS
A HUGE INITIATIVE THAT WE'RE
WE'RE DOING EXCITED TO SUPPORT
THE PURCHASE OF THIS PROPERTY.
IT'S IN THE FIFTH WARD BUT I
THINK IT'S GOING TO SERVE THE
CITY AT LARGE.
WELL, BUT IF IF STAFF WOULDN'T
MIND MR. WOULDN'T MIND COMING
UP AND JUST SPEAKING A LITTLE
BIT MORE BROADLY, I KNOW HE'S
THERE IS A MEMO ATTACHED TO
THIS THAT WE'VE ALL HAD THE
OPPORTUNITY TO READ BUT FOR THE
FOR THE COMMUNITY AT LARGE,
THIS IS A RELATIVELY NEW
CONVERSATION AROUND HAVING AN
ELECTION CENTER AND WHAT THAT
MEANS AND AND WHY THAT'S
IMPORTANT AT THIS POINT IN
TIME.
SO YOU'RE GOING TO BE THE
PERSON MOST EQUIPPED TO BE ABLE
TO TO TALK A LITTLE BIT.
WELL, I'M HAPPY TO SPEAK TO IT.
THE PERSON WHO IS PROBABLY BEST
EQUIPPED TO SPEAK ABOUT IT IS
OUR CITY CLERK JACKIE BUDERIM.
SHE HAS SPENT A GREAT DEAL
OF TIME EDUCATING ME SO I'LL
TRY TO DO HER JUSTICE.
YOU KNOW, WITH THE ADOPTION
OF REFORMS IN THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN THAT ALLOWED AN
EXPANSION TO BALLOT ACCESS TO
ABSENTEE VOTING AND TO EARLY
VOTING, THE LOGISTICAL
CHALLENGES OF ADMINISTERING AN
ELECTION IN A CITY LIKE ANN
ARBOR AND ACROSS THE STREET
HAVE BECOME EXTREMELY COMPLEX.
THE MAJORITY OF OUR VOTERS VOTE
BY ABSENTEE BALLOT NOW BEFORE
THE REFORMS OF TWENTY EIGHTEEN
MOST IF NOT ALL CERTAINLY BUT
THE VAST MAJORITY OF BALLOTS
WERE CAST AT A POLLING PLACE ON
ELECTION AND THE COUNTING AND
SORTING OCCURRED IN THOSE
INDIVIDUAL PRECINCTS.
NOW THE MAJORITY OF OUR BALLOTS
ARE CAST AS ABSENTEE BALLOTS
WHICH REQUIRES A LIKE I SAID,
VERY COMPLEX LOGISTICAL
OPERATION TO KEEP VOTER
REGISTRATION FORMS WHICH CAN
NOW BE FILLED OUT UP TO AND ON
ELECTION DAY ABSENTEE BALLOT
REQUEST FORMS ABSENTEE BALLOTS
THEMSELVES VOTED ABSENTEE
BALLOTS ALL OF THE WORKFLOWS
AND PHYSICAL PROCESSES TO
ADMINISTER THESE FORMS HAVE TO
BE PHYSICALLY SEPARATED FROM
EACH OTHER TO KEEP THESE YOU
KNOW, THESE FLOWS FROM
INTERMINGLING EACH OTHER AND
GETTING MIXED UP AND THEY HAVE
TO BE SEPARATED BY WARD AND
PRECINCT AS WELL.
AND SO IT IT THERE'S A NEED FOR
AN IMMENSE AMOUNT OF PHYSICAL
SPACE TO PROPERLY ADMINISTER AN
ELECTION IN THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN NOW BEFORE TWENTY
EIGHTEEN ALL OF THAT
ADMINISTRATION HAPPENED RIGHT
HERE ACTUALLY THE CLERK'S
OFFICE BEHIND YOU AND IN THIS
COUNCIL CHAMBER AND IT WAS
EASILY MANAGED OVER THE LAST
SEVERAL ELECTIONS WE'VE HAD TO
COMMANDEER SPACE OUTSIDE
OF CITY HALL IN TWENTY TWENTY
WHEN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS WERE
CLOSED WE USED TO HEAR IN HIGH
SCHOOL GYM AS AN ABSENTEE
BALLOT COUNT BOARD SPACE FORTY
FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET.
IT WAS A WONDERFUL PLACE FOR US
TO HOLD AN ABSENTEE BALLOT
COUNT BOARD.
BUT ONCE THE SCHOOLS REOPENED
WE DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO A SPACE
LIKE THAT IN CITY HALL SO WE
ARE CONSTANTLY KIND OF BUBBLE
GUM AND SPACE TOGETHER TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE HAVE A SECURE
FACILITY TO PROCESS THESE
BALLOTS.
WE'VE ALSO HAD TO COMMANDEER
CITY FACILITIES TO CREATE HIGH
SECURITY BALLOT STORAGE WHICH
IS NOT SOMETHING WE'VE HAD TO
DO IN THE PAST.
EVERY ELECTION WE HAVE TO
CHANGE WHERE THAT LOCATION IS
WHICH MEANS MOVING A LOT
OF CAMERAS, REKEYING DOORS AND
THINGS OF THAT NATURE.
IT WOULD IDEAL IF WE COULD HAVE
THAT IN ONE SPACE.
WE ALSO HAVE HIGH PRECISION,
VERY SENSITIVE BALLOT COUNTING
EQUIPMENT WHICH IS MEANT TO BE
STATIONARY BUT WITH OUR CURRENT
OPERATION IT HAS TO BE MOVED
INTO STORAGE AND OUT OF STORAGE
TO BALLOT COUNTING LOCATIONS
EVERY ELECTION AND SO IT'S
IMPORTANT FOR US TO REALLY
SOLIDIFY A SPACE FOR OUR
ELECTION ADMINISTRATION AS OUR
ELECTIONS HAVE CHANGED AS A
THREATS TO OUR ELECTIONS HAVE
CHANGED OVER THE LAST EIGHT
YEARS, IT'S BECOME VERY
IMPORTANT FOR US TO CHANGE HOW
WE INTERFACE WITH OUR ELECTION
PROCESSES AS WELL AND KIND
MODERNIZE HOW WE DO THINGS AND
BRING THEM UP TO A TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR STANDARD FOR SONG.
I WAS ACTUALLY ON THE EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE FOR THREE BACK IN
TWENTY EIGHTEEN.
SO FOR FOLKS WHO WANT TO TRAVEL
BACK IN TIME A LITTLE BIT PROP
THREE BASICALLY AUTHORIZE
AUTOMATIC ELECTION DAY VOTER
REGISTRATION AND ABSENTEE
VOTING STRAIGHT TICKET VOTING
AND ALLOW BASICALLY WHAT OUR
MILITARY AND OVERSEAS VOTING
FOLKS EXPERIENCE WHEN THEY VOTE
HERE.
AND IT WAS SO TIMELY GIVEN THAT
THE PANDEMIC FAILED SHORTLY
AFTER AND JUST LOWERING THOSE
BARRIERS ACCESS TO VOTE IS
SUPPOSED TO ENSURE A STRONGER
DEMOCRACY AND THEN WITH PROP
TWO PASSING THIS PAST FALL, WE
KNOW THAT VOTER TURNOUT WHAT WE
HOPE AND I HOPE I THINK ALL
OF US WILL TRY TO TO HELP
INCREASE VOTER TURNOUT WITH
THIS UPCOMING ELECTION.
SO I'M EXCITED TO SEE THIS
PROJECT COME FORWARD.
I THINK WE CAN FOLLOW WHAT THE
GOVERNOR HAD ANNOUNCED LAST
WEEK AS PART OF HER INITIATIVE
OR WHAT'S NEXT.
I WAS AT THAT SPEECH AND SHE
SPOKE TO STRENGTHENING
DEMOCRACY AS BEING PART OF HER
NEXT PLANS AND THAT INCLUDES
SUPPORTING PERHAPS TWO LAST
YEAR WITH MORE EARLY VOTING
OPTIONS AND DECREASING BARRIERS
BUT SECURING ELECTIONS, SHORING
UP ELECTIONS SECURITY IS IS HER
PLAN OF ACTION.
SO THE STARS ARE ALIGNING SO
THAT WE CAN STRENGTHEN OUR
DEMOCRACY.
NAYANTARA IN A BUILDING AND I
JUST WANT SOMEONE TO SHARE THAT
MY SON WAS AN ELECTION WORKER
THIS PREVIOUS ELECTION SO AND
HE CAME HERE FOR A TRAINING IN
THE BASEMENT AND WAS PACKED
WITH I THINK ONE OTHER TEENAGER
BESIDES HIMSELF AND A NUMBER
OF INARI RETIREES.
SO I WOULD LOVE THE ELECTION
TRAINING EXPERIENCE TO BE MORE
COMFORTABLE FOR FOLKS WHO
DEDICATE THEMSELVES TO THIS IN
PREPARATION FOR THE ELECTIONS
ON THE DAY OF THE ELECTIONS
AFTER THE ELECTIONS.
IT'S IT'S A LOT OF WORK FOR
FOLKS WHO ARE COMMITTED TO
ENSURING THAT NEIGHBORS AND
COLLEAGUES COME OUT TO SHARE
THEIR VOICE SO I WOULD LOVE TO
SEE THIS SPACE ALLOW FOR THAT
WORK TO CONTINUE, MAYBE TRAIN
MORE ELECTION WORKERS AND
SUPPORT MISS BOOGY IN A MORE
REASONABLE FASHION THAN
CRAMMING IN HERE WHILE ALSO
CONDUCTING CITY BUSINESS AND
CITY OPERATIONS NEVER GOING OUT
ELECTS ELECTIONS ARE AWESOME.
SO IS OUR CITY CLERK.
COULD YOU, MR. FOURNIER, SPEAK
REALLY BRIEFLY ABOUT WORK FOR
AS LONG AS YOU'D LIKE ABOUT THE
MATCH UP AND MARRIAGE HERE
BETWEEN QUIN AND THE ELECTION
CENTER PLEASE?
SURE.
SO AS WE BEGAN IDENTIFYING
FACILITIES FOR AN ELECTION
CENTER, ONE OF THE PHYSICAL
ATTRIBUTES YOU NEED IN A
BUILDING IS LARGE OPEN SPACE.
AS I SAID, ABSENTEE BALLOT
COUNT BOARD WE HAD IN TWENTY
TWENTY WAS A FORTY FIVE HUNDRED
SQUARE FOOT BASKETBALL COURT IN
TOTAL THE SPACE WE NEED FOR THE
ELECTION CENTER I THINK WE
ESTIMATED TO BE BETWEEN 12 AND
FOURTEEN THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
DEPENDING ON THE CONFIGURATION
BUT IT WAS DIFFICULT TO FIND
BUILDINGS OF THAT SIZE THAT
ALSO HAD LARGE OPEN SPACES AND
DIDN'T NEED A LOT OF STRUCTURAL
WORK TO OPEN THEM UP.
AND WE REALIZED THAT IF WE
WANTED A BUILDING WITH THOSE
OPEN SPACES WE NEED TO THINK A
LITTLE BIGGER AND STARTED
THINKING ABOUT OTHER CITY
OPERATIONS THAT COULD
POTENTIALLY PARTNER INTO THIS
BUILDING IN COTTON IS A NATURAL
PARTNER SOMETHING THE COMMUNITY
MAY BE AWARE OF IS A LOT
OF PEOPLE ARE CUTTING THEIR
CABLE CORD AND OUR OWN
COMMUNITY TELEVISION NETWORK
OPERATION IS FUNDED WITH PEG
FEES WHICH ARE FEES THAT
INDIVIDUAL CABLE CABLE
SUBSCRIBERS PAY INTO OUR FUND
AS THOSE REVENUES ARE DECLINING
,WE NEED TO FIND WAYS TO
OPERATE IN A MORE ECONOMICAL
WAY.
RIGHT NOW WE LEASE SPACE.
WE BELIEVE THAT MOVING THEM
INTO THIS BUILDING IN A NEW
STUDIO THAT IS PURPOSE BUILT
FOR MAYBE A DIFFERENT
PRODUCTION FUTURE AND DIFFERENT
OPERATIONAL FUTURE FOR CTM ALSO
HAS THE OPPORTUNITY TO SAVE
THEM OPERATING EXPENSES ON
THEIR FACILITY POTENTIALLY MORE
THAN 50 PERCENT SAVINGS IN
ANNUAL OPERATING EXPENSES.
SO IT'S AN EXCITING OPPORTUNITY
FOR THEM TO HAVE NEW STUDIOS
AND FOR THE FUND TO BE A LITTLE
MORE SUSTAINABLE
.
NO DENHA THANKS SINCE I USED MY
FIRST SPEAKING TIME SIMPLY TO
SIGN ON AS A CO-SPONSOR BUT A
COUPLE OF MY COLLEAGUES WHAT A
COUPLE OF MY COLLEAGUES
DESCRIBED AS I WOULD SAY KINDLY
AS SHENANIGANS THAT THAT MIGHT
BE COMING.
I WANT TO MAYBE PUT A LITTLE
BIT FINER POINT AS WE TALK
ABOUT THE NEED FOR ELECTION
SECURITY AS WELL BECAUSE YOU
KNOW, WE SAW IN IN TWENTY
TWENTY THE YOU KNOW, MEGA
EXTREMISTS, THE RIGHT WING
EXTREMISTS WHO TRIED TO DISRUPT
COUNTING OF BALLOTS IN DETROIT
WERE ACTUALLY TRYING TO BREAK
DOWN DOORS AND GET INTO THAT
FACILITY.
WE KNOW THAT THAT THREAT
CONTINUES TO EXIST AS WE AS WE
APPROACH ANOTHER PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION WITH THE SAME LIKELY
CANDIDATE ON THE REPUBLICAN
SIDE AND THEN ALSO I MEAN AGAIN
CREDIT TO OUR OUR LOCAL CLERK
FOR FOR THE ELECTION LAST TIME
WHERE WE HAD INCREDIBLE TURNOUT
AND A LOT OF ENTHUSIASM AROUND
VOTING AND LONG LINES TO VOTE.
BUT THE SAME STATEWIDE
CANDIDATE, THE WORST PERFORMING
CANDIDATE ON THE STATE BALLOT
ON THE STATEWIDE BALLOT IS WAS
TAPPED TO RUN THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY HERE IN MICHIGAN.
AND SO WE KNOW THAT SHE IS
GOING TO CONTINUE HER
DISCREDITED ATTEMPTS TO
UNDERMINE AND ASSAULT OUR
DEMOCRACY.
AND SO SO I JUST WANT TO AGAIN
GIVE CREDIT TO OUR LOCAL CLERK
AND I THINK THAT THIS IS A
REALLY IMPORTANT THING THAT WE
CAN BE DOING TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE'RE SUPPORTING THE WORK THAT
SHE DOES EACH AND EVERY DAY TO
DEFEND OUR DEMOCRACY LOCALLY
AND TO MAKE SURE THAT EVERY
SINGLE VOTE HERE IN ANN ARBOR
IS COUNTED.
THANKS.
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
I'M DELIGHTED TO BE A PART
OF BRINGING THIS FORWARD THE
THE EFFICIENT AND SECURE AND
ACCURATE CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS
IS FUNDAMENTAL TO WHAT WE DO
HERE IN THE CITY AND WE HAVE
DONE I SAY WE OF COURSE I MEAN
THE CLERK'S OFFICE CLERK BUJJI
AND THOSE WHO HAVE THE GOOD
FORTUNE TO WORK WITH OR HAVE
DONE IT UNDER INCREASED UNDER
ORDINARY CIRCUMSTANCES AND
EXTRAORDINARY CIRCUMSTANCES
MOVING FORWARD WITH WITH
THREATS TO OUR DEMOCRACY, WITH
THREATS TO TO ELECTION
INTEGRITY, INTENTIONAL THREATS
TO ELECTION INTEGRITY AND THE
INCREASED ADMINISTRATION COST
OF A WELCOME COST OF INCREASED
ABSENTEE VOTING, INCREASED
EARLY VOTING, THE PURCHASE OF A
STRUCTURE FOR THE PURPOSE
OF SUPPORTING OUR ELECTIONS IS
A NECESSITY AND I'M DELIGHTED
THAT WE ARE ABLE TONIGHT TO TO
MOVE THAT FORWARD.
WE'RE ABLE TO DO SO BECAUSE WE
HAVE A STAFF THAT HAS HAD THE
VISION TO TO NOTE THE THE NEED
AND TO PRESENT IT TO US AND TO
WORK INCREDIBLY HARD TO
ACCOMPLISH IT.
IT ALSO MUST BE SAID THAT WE
WERE DEALING WITH A PARTNER ON
THE OTHER SIDE WHO WAS NOT OUT
TO BRING A LAST DOLLAR OUT OF A
BUYER.
THEY WERE THERE UNDERSTANDING
THAT THE BUILDING WAS BEING
PURCHASED FOR CIVIC PURPOSE AND
IN A MANNER CONSISTENT
CONSISTENT WITH WITH KNOW THAT
THEY WERE APPROACHING WITH WITH
A CIVIC GOOD AS AN IMPORTANT
FACTOR OF HOW THEY WERE
APPROACHING THE ISSUE ON THE
OTHER SIDE AS WELL.
AND I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT AND
PROPER THAT WE EXPRESS
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION ON
THAT AS WELL.
AND SO SO I DO SO FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON LABOR OPPOSED IT
IS APPROVED WITH 10 COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTED IN
THE AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING
THE EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT.
MISS CORPS, DO WE HAVE THE
PLEASURE OF A CLOSED SESSION
TODAY?
NO THANK YOU MEAN WE HAVE THEM
BEFORE US.
THE CLERKS ARE PART
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS.
I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CLERK'S SUPPORT
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGSTOCK MCARTHUR ACKMANN
DISCUSSION IN FAVOR POSED THE
CLERK'S SUPPORT AS APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CITY ATTORNEY JUST GRATITUDE
FOR ALLOWING ME TO CONTINUE TO
SERVE OUR CITY.
THANK YOU.
WELL THAT BACK AT YOU IN THE
ABSENCE OF OVERFLOW PUBLIC
COMMENT MADE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE BY COUNSEL
MURKOWSKI.
I HADN'T SEEN MY COUNSEL MORE
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
WE'RE ADJOURNED